[115th Congress Public Law 244]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 132 STAT. 2897]]

Public Law 115-244
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making consolidated appropriations for Energy and Water Development, the 
Legislative Branch, Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related 
 Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other 
           purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 21, 2018 -  [H.R. 5895]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Energy and 
Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, 
and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
2019''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Statement of appropriations.

     DIVISION A--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

Title I--Corps of Engineers--Civil
Title II--Department of the Interior
Title III--Department of Energy
Title IV--Independent Agencies
Title V--General Provisions

         DIVISION B--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

Title I--Legislative Branch
Title II--General Provisions

    DIVISION C--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

Title I--Department of Defense
Title II--Department of Veterans Affairs
Title III--Related Agencies
Title IV--Overseas Contingency Operations
Title V--General Provisions

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 1 USC 1 note.>>  REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2019.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2898]]

  DIVISION A--ENERGY <<NOTE: Energy and Water Development and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019.>>  AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED 
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

                                 TITLE I

                        CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

    For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the collection 
and study of basic information pertaining to river and harbor, flood and 
storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, 
and related needs; for surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm damage 
reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem restoration projects, 
and related efforts prior to construction; for restudy of authorized 
projects; and for miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by 
law, surveys and detailed studies, and plans and specifications of 
projects prior to construction, $125,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: <<NOTE: Studies.>>   Provided, That the Secretary shall 
initiate six new study starts during fiscal year 2019:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall not deviate from the new starts 
proposed in the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                              construction

    For expenses necessary for the construction of river and harbor, 
flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related projects authorized by law; for conducting 
detailed studies, and plans and specifications, of such projects 
(including those involving participation by States, local governments, 
or private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by law (but 
such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, shall not 
constitute a commitment of the Government to construction); 
$2,183,000,000, to remain available until expended; of which such sums 
as are necessary to cover the Federal share of construction costs for 
facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal Facilities program shall 
be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund as authorized by 
Public Law 104-303; and of which such sums as are necessary to cover 
one-half of the costs of construction, replacement, rehabilitation, and 
expansion of inland waterways projects, except for Chickamauga Lock, 
Tennessee River, Tennessee, which shall be 15 percent during the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, shall be derived from the Inland Waterways 
Trust Fund, except as otherwise specifically provided for in law:  
Provided,

[[Page 132 STAT. 2899]]

That the Secretary shall initiate five new construction starts during 
fiscal year 2019:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  for new 
construction projects, project cost sharing agreements shall be executed 
as soon as practicable but no later than September 30, 2019:  Provided 
further, That no allocation for a new start shall be considered final 
and no work allowance shall be made until the Secretary provides to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an out-year 
funding scenario demonstrating the affordability of the selected new 
starts and the impacts on other projects:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may not deviate from the new starts proposed in the work plan, 
once the plan has been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress.

                    mississippi river and tributaries

    For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects and 
related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley below Cape 
Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, $368,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary to cover 
the Federal share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for inland 
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.

                        operation and maintenance

    For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and care of 
existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, aquatic 
ecosystem restoration, and related projects authorized by law; providing 
security for infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, including 
administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor channels 
provided by a State, municipality, or other public agency that serve 
essential navigation needs of general commerce, where authorized by law; 
surveying and charting northern and northwestern lakes and connecting 
waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removing obstructions 
to navigation, $3,739,500,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of eligible 
operation and maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and 
for inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust 
Fund; of which such sums as become available from the special account 
for the Corps of Engineers established by the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 shall be derived from that account for 
resource protection, research, interpretation, and maintenance 
activities related to resource protection in the areas at which outdoor 
recreation is available; and of which such sums as become available from 
fees collected under section 217 of Public Law 104-303 shall be used to 
cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the dredged material 
disposal facilities for which such fees have been collected:  Provided, 
That 1 percent of the total amount of funds provided for each of the 
programs, projects, or activities funded under this heading shall not be 
allocated to a field operating activity prior to the beginning of the 
fourth quarter of the fiscal year and shall be available for use by the 
Chief of Engineers to fund such emergency activities as the Chief of 
Engineers determines to be necessary and appropriate, and that the Chief 
of Engineers shall allocate during the fourth

[[Page 132 STAT. 2900]]

quarter any remaining funds which have not been used for emergency 
activities proportionally in accordance with the amounts provided for 
the programs, projects, or activities.

                           regulatory program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020.

             formerly utilized sites remedial action program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites in the 
United States resulting from work performed as part of the Nation's 
early atomic energy program, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and other 
natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, and other 
activities in response to such disasters as authorized by law, 
$35,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                expenses

    For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
administration of the civil works program in the headquarters of the 
Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division Engineers; and for 
costs of management and operation of the Humphreys Engineer Center 
Support Activity, the Institute for Water Resources, the United States 
Army Engineer Research and Development Center, and the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
program, $193,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, of 
which not to exceed $5,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation purposes and only during the current fiscal year:  
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation provided in this title 
shall be available to fund the civil works activities of the Office of 
the Chief of Engineers or the civil works executive direction and 
management activities of the division offices:  Provided further, That 
any Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies appropriation may be used to 
fund the supervision and general administration of emergency operations, 
repairs, and other activities in response to any flood, hurricane, or 
other natural disaster.

      office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

    For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3016(b)(3), $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Work 
plan.>>  not more than 25 percent of such amount may be obligated or 
expended until the Assistant Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a work plan that allocates at 
least 95 percent of the additional funding provided under each heading 
in this title, as designated under such heading in the joint explanatory 
statement accompanying this Act, to specific programs, projects, or 
activities.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2901]]

              GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in title I of this Act, or 
provided by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities 
funded in title I of this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2019, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that:
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        this Act, unless prior approval is received from the House and 
        Senate Committees on Appropriations;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        for a different purpose, unless prior approval is received from 
        the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations;
            (5) augments or reduces existing programs, projects, or 
        activities in excess of the amounts contained in paragraphs (6) 
        through (10), unless prior approval is received from the House 
        and Senate Committees on Appropriations;
            (6) Investigations.--For a base level over $100,000, 
        reprogramming of 25 percent of the base amount up to a limit of 
        $150,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  Provided, 
        That for a base level less than $100,000, the reprogramming 
        limit is $25,000:  Provided further, That up to $25,000 may be 
        reprogrammed into any continuing study or activity that did not 
        receive an appropriation for existing obligations and 
        concomitant administrative expenses;
            (7) Construction.--For a base level over $2,000,000, 
        reprogramming of 15 percent of the base amount up to a limit of 
        $3,000,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  Provided, 
        That for a base level less than $2,000,000, the reprogramming 
        limit is $300,000:  Provided further, That up to $3,000,000 may 
        be reprogrammed for settled contractor claims, changed 
        conditions, or real estate deficiency judgments:  Provided 
        further, That up to $300,000 may be reprogrammed into any 
        continuing study or activity that did not receive an 
        appropriation for existing obligations and concomitant 
        administrative expenses;
            (8) Operation and maintenance.--Unlimited reprogramming 
        authority is granted for the Corps to be able to respond to 
        emergencies:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  the Chief 
        of Engineers shall notify the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations of these emergency actions as soon thereafter as 
        practicable:  Provided further, That for a base level over 
        $1,000,000, reprogramming of 15 percent of the base amount up to 
        a limit of $5,000,000 per project, study, or activity is 
        allowed:  Provided further, That for a base level less than 
        $1,000,000, the reprogramming limit is $150,000:  Provided 
        further, That $150,000 may be reprogrammed into any continuing 
        study or activity that did not receive an appropriation;
            (9) Mississippi river and tributaries.--
        The <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  reprogramming guidelines in 
        paragraphs (6), (7), and (8) shall apply

[[Page 132 STAT. 2902]]

        to the Investigations, Construction, and Operation and 
        Maintenance portions of the Mississippi River and Tributaries 
        Account, respectively; and
            (10) Formerly utilized sites remedial action program.--
        Reprogramming of up to 15 percent of the base of the receiving 
        project is permitted.

    (b) De Minimus Reprogrammings.--In no case should a reprogramming 
for less than $50,000 be submitted to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (c) Continuing Authorities Program.--Subsection (a)(1) shall not 
apply to any project or activity funded under the continuing authorities 
program.
    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations to establish the baseline for 
application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current 
fiscal year which shall include:
            (1) A table for each appropriation with a separate column to 
        display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if applicable, 
        and the fiscal year enacted level; and
            (2) A delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
        by object class and program, project and activity as detailed in 
        the budget appendix for the respective appropriations; and
            (3) An identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.

    Sec. 102.  The Secretary shall allocate funds made available in this 
Act solely in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act, including the determination 
and designation of new starts.
    Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to award or modify any contract that commits funds beyond the 
amounts appropriated for that program, project, or activity that remain 
unobligated, except that such amounts may include any funds that have 
been made available through reprogramming pursuant to section 101.
    Sec. 104.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the Fish and 
Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service may accept and 
expend, up to $5,400,000 of funds provided in this title under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to mitigate for fisheries lost due 
to Corps of Engineers projects.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for an open 
lake placement alternative for dredged material, after evaluating the 
least costly, environmentally acceptable manner for the disposal or 
management of dredged material originating from Lake Erie or tributaries 
thereto, unless it is approved under a State water quality certification 
pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1341):  Provided, That until an open lake placement alternative 
for dredged material is approved under a State water quality 
certification, the Corps of Engineers shall continue upland placement of 
such dredged material consistent with the requirements of section 101 of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211).
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for any acquisition of buoy chain that is not consistent with 48 
CFR 225.7007, subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2).

[[Page 132 STAT. 2903]]

    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out any water supply reallocation study under the Wolf Creek 
Dam, Lake Cumberland, Kentucky, project authorized under the Act of July 
24, 1946 (60 Stat. 636, ch. 595).
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require a permit for the discharge of dredged or fill material under 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) for the 
activities identified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 404(f)(1) 
of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A), (C)).
    Sec. 109.  For fiscal year 2019, none of the funds provided in this 
Act or available in the revolving fund established by the Civil 
Functions Appropriations Act of 1954 (33 U.S.C. 576(a)) may be obligated 
or expended on a new hopper dredge.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any other 
Act may be used to reorganize or to transfer the Civil Works functions 
or authority of the Corps of Engineers or the Secretary of the Army to 
another department or agency.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                 central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $898,000 shall be deposited into the Utah Reclamation Mitigation 
and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and 
Conservation Commission:  Provided, That of the amount provided under 
this heading, $1,398,675 shall be available until September 30, 2020, 
for expenses necessary in carrying out related responsibilities of the 
Secretary of the Interior:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, 
of the amount made available to the Commission under this Act or any 
other Act, the Commission may use an amount not to exceed $1,500,000 for 
administrative expenses.

                          Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute authorized 
functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                       water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance, and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, federally recognized Indian tribes, 
and others, $1,391,992,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$67,393,000 shall be available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River 
Basin Fund and $5,551,000

[[Page 132 STAT. 2904]]

shall be available for transfer to the Lower Colorado River Basin 
Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be necessary may be 
advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund:  Provided, That such transfers 
may be increased or decreased within the overall appropriation under 
this heading:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Grants.>>  within 
available funds, $250,000 shall be for grants and financial assistance 
for educational activities:  Provided further, That of the total 
appropriated, the amount for program activities that can be financed by 
the Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation special fee account 
established by 16 U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from that Fund or 
account:  Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 
are available until expended for the purposes for which the funds were 
contributed:  Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 397a 
shall be credited to this account and are available until expended for 
the same purposes as the sums appropriated under this heading:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
high-priority projects which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706.

                 central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat restoration, 
improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central Valley Project 
Improvement Act, $62,008,000, to be derived from such sums as may be 
collected in the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund pursuant to 
sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 102-575, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That the Bureau of 
Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full amount of the 
additional mitigation and restoration payments authorized by section 
3407(d) of Public Law 102-575:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this heading may be used for the acquisition or 
leasing of water for in-stream purposes if the water is already 
committed to in-stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent with plans to 
be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, $35,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such amounts as may be necessary to 
carry out such activities may be transferred to appropriate accounts of 
other participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized purposes:  
Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be used for the Federal 
share of the costs of CALFED Program management:  Provided further, That 
CALFED implementation shall be carried out in a balanced manner with 
clear performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                        policy and administration

    For expenses necessary for policy, administration, and related 
functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to

[[Page 132 STAT. 2905]]

remain available until September 30, 2020, $61,000,000, to be derived 
from the Reclamation Fund and be nonreimbursable as provided in 43 
U.S.C. 377:  Provided, That no part of any other appropriation in this 
Act shall be available for activities or functions budgeted as policy 
and administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles, which are for 
replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. (a) None of the funds provided in title II of this Act for 
Water and Related Resources, or provided by previous or subsequent 
appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in title II of 
this Act for Water and Related Resources that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) initiates or creates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act, 
        unless prior approval is received from the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate;
            (4) restarts or resumes any program, project or activity for 
        which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior approval 
        is received from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives and the Senate;
            (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits, 
        unless prior approval is received from the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:
                    (A) 15 percent for any program, project or activity 
                for which $2,000,000 or more is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year; or
                    (B) $400,000 for any program, project or activity 
                for which less than $2,000,000 is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year;
            (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
        Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
        Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
        project, or activity in the other category, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the House of Representatives and the Senate; or
            (7) transfers, where necessary to discharge legal 
        obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than $5,000,000 
        to provide adequate funds for settled contractor claims, 
        increased contractor earnings due to accelerated rates of 
        operations, and real estate deficiency judgments, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of funds 
within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation 
category.
    (c) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, the term 
transfer means any movement of funds into or out of a program, project, 
or activity.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2906]]

    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit 
reports on a quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate detailing all the funds 
reprogrammed between programs, projects, activities, or categories of 
funding. The first quarterly report shall be submitted not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 202. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to determine the final point of 
discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis Unit until 
development by the Secretary of the Interior and the State of California 
of a plan, which shall conform to the water quality standards of the 
State of California as approved by the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any detrimental effect of 
the San Luis drainage waters.
    (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and the 
costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program shall be classified by 
the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or nonreimbursable and 
collected until fully repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, Kesterson 
Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, 
February 1995'', prepared by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by the United States 
relating to, or providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for 
the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal reclamation 
law.
    Sec. 203.  Hereinafter, <<NOTE: Time period. Consultation.>>  
notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the period from 
November 1 through April 30, water users may use their diversion 
structures for the purpose of recharging the Eastern Snake Plain 
Aquifer, when the Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory Committee 
and Water District 1 watermaster, determines there is water available in 
excess of that needed to satisfy existing Minidoka Project storage and 
hydropower rights and ensure operational flexibility.

    Sec. 204.  Section 9001(d) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act 
of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1295) is amended by striking 
``10'' and inserting ``20''.
    Sec. 205. (a) Section 206(c)(2) of the Energy and Water Development 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 (43 U.S.C. 620 note; 
Public Law 113-235) is amended by striking ``2018.'' and inserting the 
following: ``2022: Provided, That the Secretary shall not fund pilot 
projects in the Upper Colorado River Basin without the participation of 
the Upper Colorado River Division States, acting through the Upper 
Colorado River Commission.''.
    (b) Section 9504(e) of the Secure Water Act of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 
10364(e)) is amended by striking ``$450,000,000'' and inserting 
``$480,000,000''.
    Sec. 206.  Section 9 of the Fort Peck Reservation Rural Water System 
Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-382; 114 Stat. 1457, 123 Stat. 2856, 128 
Stat. 164) is amended by striking ``2020'' each place it appears in 
subsections (a)(1) and (b) and inserting ``2026''.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2907]]

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy efficiency and renewable energy activities 
in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation 
of any real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
acquisition, construction, or expansion, $2,379,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $162,500,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2020, for program direction.

         Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy sector cybersecurity, energy security, and 
emergency response activities in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $120,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $11,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2020, for program direction.

                          Electricity Delivery

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for electricity delivery activities in carrying out 
the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $156,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $17,000,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2020, for program direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $1,326,090,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of such amount, $80,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2020, for program direction.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2908]]

                 Fossil Energy Research and Development

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out fossil 
energy research and development activities, under the authority of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition of interest, including defeasible and 
equitable interests in any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition or expansion, and for conducting inquiries, 
technological investigations and research concerning the extraction, 
processing, use, and disposal of mineral substances without 
objectionable social and environmental costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 
1603), $740,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
of such amount $61,070,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, 
for program direction.

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary to carry out naval 
petroleum and oil shale reserve activities, $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, unobligated funds remaining from prior years shall be 
available for all naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                       Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve facility development and operations and program management 
activities pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.), $235,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, <<NOTE: 42 USC 6241 note.>>  as authorized by section 
404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-74; 42 U.S.C. 
6239 note), the Secretary of Energy shall draw down and sell not to 
exceed $300,000,000 of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in 
fiscal year 2019:  Provided further, That the proceeds from such 
drawdown and sale shall be deposited into the ``Energy Security and 
Infrastructure Modernization Fund'' during fiscal year 2019:  Provided 
further, That such amounts shall be made available and shall remain 
available until expended for necessary expenses to carry out the Life 
Extension II project for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

                          SPR Petroleum Account

    For the acquisition, transportation, and injection of petroleum 
products, and for other necessary expenses pursuant to the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), 
sections 403 and 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 
6241, 6239 note), and section 5010 of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public 
Law 114-255), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Northeast Home 
Heating Oil Reserve storage, operation, and management activities 
pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42

[[Page 132 STAT. 2909]]

U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Energy Information Administration

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities of the Energy Information Administration, $125,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental cleanup activities in 
carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of 
any real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $310,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

       Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out uranium 
enrichment facility decontamination and decommissioning, remedial 
actions, and other activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, and title X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, 
$841,129,000, to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination 
and Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until expended, of which 
$11,000,000 shall be available in accordance with title X, subtitle A, 
of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, including for the purchase of not to 
exceed one ambulance for replacement only.

                                 Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not more than 16 passenger motor vehicles 
including one bus, and one airplane for replacement only, 
$6,585,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
such amount, $183,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, 
for program direction.

                Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities authorized by section 5012 of the America COMPETES Act 
(Public Law 110-69), $366,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of such amount, $31,250,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2020, for program direction.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2910]]

          Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

    Such sums as are derived from amounts received from borrowers 
pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 under this 
heading in prior Acts, shall be collected in accordance with section 
502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided, That for 
necessary administrative expenses of the Title 17 Innovative Technology 
Loan Guarantee Program, as authorized, $33,000,000 is appropriated, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That up to 
$33,000,000 of fees collected in fiscal year 2019 pursuant to section 
1702(h) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall be credited as offsetting 
collections under this heading and used for necessary administrative 
expenses in this appropriation and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That to the extent that fees 
collected in fiscal year 2019 exceed $33,000,000, those excess amounts 
shall be credited as offsetting collections under this heading and 
available in future fiscal years only to the extent provided in advance 
in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced (1) as such fees are 
received during fiscal year 2019 (estimated at $15,000,000) and (2) to 
the extent that any remaining general fund appropriations can be derived 
from fees collected in previous fiscal years that are not otherwise 
appropriated, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $0:  Provided further, That the 
Department of Energy shall not subordinate any loan obligation to other 
financing in violation of section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
or subordinate any Guaranteed Obligation to any loan or other debt 
obligations in violation of section 609.10 of title 10, Code of Federal 
Regulations.

         Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan 
Program, $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                  Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program, $1,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020.

               Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs

    For necessary expenses for Indian Energy activities in carrying out 
the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101 et seq.), $18,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$4,800,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, for program 
direction.

                       Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes

[[Page 132 STAT. 2911]]

of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
$261,858,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, including 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $30,000, plus such additional 
amounts as necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost 
of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency 
Act (31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.):  Provided, That such increases in cost of 
work are offset by revenue increases of the same or greater amount:  
Provided further, That moneys received by the Department for 
miscellaneous revenues estimated to total $96,000,000 in fiscal year 
2019 may be retained and used for operating expenses within this 
account, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, 
notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2019 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$165,858,000.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$51,330,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed one ambulance for replacement only, $11,100,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$102,022,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, for program 
direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear nonproliferation 
activities, in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed three aircraft, $1,949,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $25,000,000 shall be made 
available for design activities supporting the dilute and dispose 
strategy for plutonium disposition:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading

[[Page 132 STAT. 2912]]

shall be made available for the construction activities or acquisition 
of equipment for the Surplus Plutonium Disposition Project:  Provided 
further, That of the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations 
available under this heading, $19,000,000 is hereby rescinded:  Provided 
further, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             Naval Reactors

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $1,788,618,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which, $85,500,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Nuclear 
Energy'', for the Advanced Test Reactor:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$48,709,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, for program 
direction.

                      Federal Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for Federal Salaries and Expenses in the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, $410,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, including official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $12,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                      Defense Environmental Cleanup

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed one passenger minivan for replacement only, 
$6,028,600,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
such amount, $298,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020, 
for program direction:  Provided further, That of the unobligated 
balances from prior year appropriations available under this heading, 
$4,600,000 is hereby rescinded:  Provided further, That no amounts may 
be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the 
Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2913]]

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense activities, 
and classified activities, in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $860,292,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $295,432,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2020, for program direction.

                     POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for official 
reception and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $5,000: 
 Provided, That during fiscal year 2019, no new direct loan obligations 
may be made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southeastern power area, $6,500,000, including official reception 
and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 
and section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944, up to $6,500,000 
collected by the Southeastern Power Administration from the sale of 
power and related services shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until expended 
for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southeastern 
Power Administration:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2019 appropriation estimated at not more than $0:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $55,000,000 collected by the 
Southeastern Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 
1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be credited 
to this account as offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling 
expenditures:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally 
recovered in the same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase 
power and wheeling expenses).

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy,

[[Page 132 STAT. 2914]]

for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 in carrying out section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 
(16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern Power Administration, 
$45,802,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), up to $35,402,000 collected by the Southwestern 
Power Administration from the sale of power and related services shall 
be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting collections, to 
remain available until expended, for the sole purpose of funding the 
annual expenses of the Southwestern Power Administration:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $10,400,000:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, up to $50,000,000 collected by the Southwestern Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 to recover 
purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account 
as offsetting collections, to remain available until expended for the 
sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling expenditures:  
Provided further, That for purposes of this appropriation, annual 
expenses means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same 
year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and wheeling 
expenses).

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, $265,142,000, including official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain 
available until expended, of which $265,142,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the Interior Department 
Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), up to $175,770,000 collected 
by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole 
purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area Power 
Administration:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $89,372,000, of which $89,372,000 is derived 
from the Reclamation Fund:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, up to $225,442,000 collected by the Western Area Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the 
Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, to 
remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making purchase 
power and wheeling

[[Page 132 STAT. 2915]]

expenditures:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally 
recovered in the same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase 
power and wheeling expenses).

            Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $1,568,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the Western Area Power 
Administration, as provided in section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 (68 
Stat. 255):  Provided, That notwithstanding the provisions of that Act 
and of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $1,340,000 collected by the Western Area 
Power Administration from the sale of power and related services from 
the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until expended 
for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the hydroelectric 
facilities of these Dams and associated Western Area Power 
Administration activities:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2019 appropriation estimated at not more than $228,000:  Provided 
further, That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means 
expenditures that are generally recovered in the same year that they are 
incurred:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, the 
Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration may accept up to 
$372,000 in funds contributed by United States power customers of the 
Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit into the Falcon and Amistad 
Operating and Maintenance Fund, and such funds shall be available for 
the purpose for which contributed in like manner as if said sums had 
been specifically appropriated for such purpose:  Provided further, That 
any such funds shall be available without further appropriation and 
without fiscal year limitation for use by the Commissioner of the United 
States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission for 
the sole purpose of operating, maintaining, repairing, rehabilitating, 
replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric facilities at these Dams in 
accordance with agreements reached between the Administrator, 
Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, official reception and representation expenses not to exceed 
$3,000, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $369,900,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That <<NOTE: 42 USC 7171 
note.>>  notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$369,900,000 of revenues from fees and annual charges, and other 
services and collections in fiscal year 2019 shall be retained and used 
for expenses necessary in this account, and shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced

[[Page 132 STAT. 2916]]

as revenues are received during fiscal year 2019 so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
not more than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made available 
by this title for the Department of Energy shall be used to initiate or 
resume any program, project, or activity or to prepare or initiate 
Requests For Proposals or similar arrangements (including Requests for 
Quotations, Requests for Information, and Funding Opportunity 
Announcements) for a program, project, or activity if the program, 
project, or activity has not been funded by Congress.
    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  Unless the Secretary of 
Energy notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least 3 full business days in advance, none of the funds 
made available in this title may be used to--
            (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
        totaling $1,000,000 or more;
            (B) make a discretionary contract award or Other Transaction 
        Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more, including a contract 
        covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
            (C) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
        or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) or (B); 
        or
            (D) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
        award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) 
        or (B).

    (2) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Energy shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress within 15 days 
of the conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each grant 
allocation or discretionary grant award totaling less than $1,000,000 
provided during the previous quarter.

    (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the report 
required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient of the award, the 
amount of the award, the fiscal year for which the funds for the award 
were appropriated, the account and program, project, or activity from 
which the funds are being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief 
description of the activity for which the award is made.
    (c) The Department of Energy may not, with respect to any program, 
project, or activity that uses budget authority made available in this 
title under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs'', enter 
into a multiyear contract, award a multiyear grant, or enter into a 
multiyear cooperative agreement unless--
            (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
        for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time of 
        award; or
            (2) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement includes a 
        clause conditioning the Federal Government's obligation on the 
        availability of future year budget authority and the Secretary 
        notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
        Congress at least 3 days in advance.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2917]]

    (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), the amounts 
made available by this title shall be expended as authorized by law for 
the programs, projects, and activities specified in the ``Conference'' 
column in the ``Department of Energy'' table included under the heading 
``Title III--Department of Energy'' in the joint explanatory statement 
accompanying this Act.
    (e) <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  The amounts made available 
by this title may be reprogrammed for any program, project, or activity, 
and the Department shall notify, and obtain the prior approval of, the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days 
prior to the use of any proposed reprogramming that would cause any 
program, project, or activity funding level to increase or decrease by 
more than $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during the time 
period covered by this Act.

    (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
        Act; or
            (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act.

    (g)(1) <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>>  The Secretary of Energy may 
waive any requirement or restriction in this section that applies to the 
use of funds made available for the Department of Energy if compliance 
with such requirement or restriction would pose a substantial risk to 
human health, the environment, welfare, or national security.

    (2) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  The Secretary of Energy shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
any waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later 
than 3 days after the date of the activity to which a requirement or 
restriction would otherwise have applied. Such notice shall include an 
explanation of the substantial risk under paragraph (1) that permitted 
such waiver.

    (h) The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for 
activities in this Act may be available to the same appropriation 
accounts for such activities established pursuant to this title. 
Available balances may be merged with funds in the applicable 
established accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund for 
the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 302.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094) during fiscal year 2019 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 303.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for the construction of facilities classified as high-hazard 
nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 unless independent oversight is 
conducted by the Office of Enterprise Assessments to ensure the project 
is in compliance with nuclear safety requirements.
    Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to approve critical decision-2 or critical decision-3 under 
Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any successive departmental 
guidance, for construction projects where the total project

[[Page 132 STAT. 2918]]

cost exceeds $100,000,000, until a separate independent cost estimate 
has been developed for the project for that critical decision.
    Sec. 305.  The <<NOTE: Notifications.>>  Secretary of Energy may not 
transfer more than $274,833,000 from the amounts made available under 
this title to the working capital fund established under section 653 of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7263):  Provided, 
That the Secretary may transfer additional amounts to the working 
capital fund after the Secretary provides notification in advance of any 
such transfer to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That any such notification shall identify 
the sources of funds by program, project, or activity:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before adding or removing any 
activities from the fund.

    Sec. 306. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any prior 
Act under the heading ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'' may be made 
available to enter into new contracts with, or new agreements for 
Federal assistance to, the Russian Federation.
    (b) <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination.>>  The Secretary of 
Energy may waive the prohibition in subsection (a) if the Secretary 
determines that such activity is in the national security interests of 
the United States. This waiver authority may not be delegated.

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. Reports.>>  A waiver under subsection 
(b) shall not be effective until 15 days after the date on which the 
Secretary submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress, in classified form if necessary, a report on the justification 
for the waiver.

    Sec. 307. (a) New Regional Reserves.--The Secretary of Energy may 
not establish any new regional petroleum product reserve unless funding 
for the proposed regional petroleum product reserve is explicitly 
requested in advance in an annual budget submission and approved by the 
Congress in an appropriations Act.
    (b) The budget request or notification shall include--
            (1) the justification for the new reserve;
            (2) <<NOTE: Cost estimate.>>  a cost estimate for the 
        establishment, operation, and maintenance of the reserve, 
        including funding sources;
            (3) <<NOTE: Plan.>>  a detailed plan for operation of the 
        reserve, including the conditions upon which the products may be 
        released;
            (4) the location of the reserve; and
            (5) <<NOTE: Estimate.>>  the estimate of the total inventory 
        of the reserve.

    Sec. 308.  Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Determination. President.>>  
section 161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241), 
upon a determination by the President in this fiscal year that a 
regional supply shortage of refined petroleum product of significant 
scope and duration exists, that a severe increase in the price of 
refined petroleum product will likely result from such shortage, and 
that a draw down and sale of refined petroleum product would assist 
directly and significantly in reducing the adverse impact of such 
shortage, the Secretary of Energy may draw down and sell refined 
petroleum product from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Proceeds from a 
sale under this section shall be deposited into the SPR Petroleum 
Account established in section 167 of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act (42 U.S.C. 6247), and such amounts shall be available for 
obligation, without fiscal year limitation, consistent with that 
section.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2919]]

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Appalachian Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, and for expenses necessary 
for the Federal Co-Chairman and the Alternate on the Appalachian 
Regional Commission, for payment of the Federal share of the 
administrative expenses of the Commission, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$165,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $31,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That none of the 
funds made available by this or any prior Act for the salaries and 
expenses of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board shall be 
available to implement any reform and reorganization plan of the Defense 
Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, including the plan announced on August 
15, 2018, unless any such reform and reorganization plan is specifically 
authorized by law.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Delta Regional Authority and to carry 
out its activities, as authorized by the Delta Regional Authority Act of 
2000, notwithstanding sections 382F(d), 382M, and 382N of said Act, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                            Denali Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Denali Commission including the 
purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
as necessary and other expenses, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) of 
the Denali Commission Act of 1998:  Provided, That funds shall be 
available for construction projects in an amount not to exceed 80 
percent of total project cost for distressed communities, as defined by 
section 307 of the Denali Commission Act of 1998 (division C, title III, 
Public Law 105-277), as amended by section 701 of appendix D, title VII, 
Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and an amount not to exceed 50 
percent for non-distressed communities:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding payment of a non-
Federal share in connection with a grant-in-aid program, amounts under 
this heading shall be available for the payment of such

[[Page 132 STAT. 2920]]

a non-Federal share for programs undertaken to carry out the purposes of 
the Commission.

                   Northern Border Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Northern Border Regional Commission 
in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United 
States Code, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such amounts shall be available for administrative expenses, 
notwithstanding section 15751(b) of title 40, United States Code:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2019, the duties and authority 
of the Federal Cochairperson shall be assumed by the Northern Border 
Regional Commission Program Director if the position of the Federal 
Cochairperson and Alternate Federal Cochairperson is vacant.

                 Southeast Crescent Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Southeast Crescent Regional 
Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 
40, United States Code, $250,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, $898,350,000, including official representation expenses 
not to exceed $25,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated herein, not more than $9,500,000 may be 
made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs for the 
Office of the Commission, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
of which, notwithstanding section 201(a)(2)(c) of the Energy 
Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5841(a)(2)(c)), the use and 
expenditure shall only be approved by a majority vote of the Commission: 
 Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
services, and other services and collections estimated at $770,477,000 
in fiscal year 2019 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries 
and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $10,300,000 shall be for 
activities related to the development of regulatory infrastructure for 
advanced nuclear technologies, and $16,080,000 shall be for 
international activities, except that the amounts provided under this 
proviso shall not be derived from fee revenues, notwithstanding 42 
U.S.C. 2214:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall 
be reduced by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 2019 so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at not 
more than $127,873,000:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
appropriated under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be for university 
research and development in areas relevant to the Commission's mission, 
and $5,000,000 shall be for a Nuclear Science and Engineering Grant 
Program that will support multiyear projects that do not align with 
programmatic missions but are

[[Page 132 STAT. 2921]]

critical to maintaining the discipline of nuclear science and 
engineering.

                       office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$12,609,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other 
services and collections estimated at $10,355,000 in fiscal year 2019 
shall be retained and be available until September 30, 2020, for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding section 
3302 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues received 
during fiscal year 2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 
appropriation estimated at not more than $2,254,000:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, $1,103,000 shall be 
for Inspector General services for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board, which shall not be available from fee revenues.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $3,600,000, to be 
derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, to remain available until September 
30, 2020.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

    Sec. 401.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall comply with the 
July 5, 2011, version of Chapter VI of its Internal Commission 
Procedures when responding to Congressional requests for information, 
consistent with Department of Justice guidance for all federal agencies.
    Sec. 402. (a) <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  The amounts made 
available by this title for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may be 
reprogrammed for any program, project, or activity, and the Commission 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 30 days prior to the use of any proposed reprogramming that 
would cause any program funding level to increase or decrease by more 
than $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during the time period 
covered by this Act.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>>  The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission may waive the notification requirement in subsection (a) if 
compliance with such requirement would pose a substantial risk to human 
health, the environment, welfare, or national security.

    (2) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress of any waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, 
but not later than 3 days after the date of the activity to which a 
requirement or restriction would otherwise have applied. Such notice 
shall include an explanation of the substantial risk under paragraph (1) 
that permitted such waiver and shall provide a detailed report to the 
Committees of such waiver and changes to funding levels to programs, 
projects, or activities.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2922]]

    (c) Except as provided in subsections (a), (b), and (d), the amounts 
made available by this title for ``Nuclear Regulatory Commission--
Salaries and Expenses'' shall be expended as directed in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds that increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or 
activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this Act.
    (e) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Commission shall provide a monthly 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, 
which includes the following for each program, project, or activity, 
including any prior year appropriations--
            (1) total budget authority;
            (2) total unobligated balances; and
            (3) total unliquidated obligations.

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used in 
any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action on 
any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, other 
than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 
1913.
    Sec. 502. (a) None of the funds made available in title III of this 
Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by or 
transfer authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations Act 
for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act, or any authority whereby a 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
may provide goods or services to another department, agency, or 
instrumentality.
    (b) None of the funds made available for any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government may be transferred to 
accounts funded in title III of this Act, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by or transfer authority provided in this Act or any other 
appropriations Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in 
the joint explanatory statement accompanying this Act, or any authority 
whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
Government may provide goods or services to another department, agency, 
or instrumentality.
    (c) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The head of any relevant department or 
agency funded in this Act utilizing any transfer authority shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
semiannual report detailing the transfer authorities, except for any 
authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government may provide goods or services to another department, 
agency, or instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months and in the 
year-to-date. This report shall include the

[[Page 132 STAT. 2923]]

amounts transferred and the purposes for which they were transferred, 
and shall not replace or modify existing notification requirements for 
each authority.

    Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of Executive Order No. 12898 of February 11, 1994 
(Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority 
Populations and Low-Income Populations).
    Sec. 504. (a) <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 505.  For an additional amount for ``Department of the 
Interior--Bureau of Reclamation--Water and Related Resources'', 
$21,400,000, to remain available until expended, for transfer to 
Reclamation's Upper Colorado River Basin Fund to carry out environmental 
stewardship and endangered species recovery efforts pursuant to the 
Grand Canyon Protection Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-575), Public Law 
106-392, the Colorado River Basin Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1551(b)), and 
the Act of April 11, 1956 (commonly known as the ``Colorado River 
Storage Project Act'') (43 U.S.C. 620n).
    This division may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019''.

 DIVISION B--LEGISLATIVE <<NOTE: Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2019. 2 USC 60a note.>>  BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

                                 TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

       Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For payment to Cindy H. McCain, <<NOTE: Cindy H. McCain.>>  widow of 
John Sidney McCain III, late a Senator from the State of Arizona, 
$174,000.

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $18,760; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$39,920; Minority Leader of the Senate, $39,920; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $9,980; Minority Whip of the Senate, $9,980; President Pro 
Tempore Emeritus, $15,000; Chairmen of the Majority and Minority 
Conference Committees, $4,690 for each Chairman; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Policy Committees, $4,690 for each Chairman; in 
all, $189,840.
    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $14,070 for each such Leader; in all, $28,140.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2924]]

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $208,390,812, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation as follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,484,248.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $744,466.

              office of the president pro tempore emeritus

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore Emeritus, $319,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $5,399,576.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,455,424.

                       committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $15,496,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,704,000 for each such committee; in all, $3,408,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $843,402.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,740,905 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,481,810.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $474,886.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $26,315,000.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2925]]

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $84,157,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,900,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $59,912,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $6,278,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,176,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                              of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,110; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,110; in all, $28,440.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and Rescission 
Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 96th Congress, 
agreed to March 11, 1980, $133,265,000, of which $26,650,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

          u.s. senate caucus on international narcotics control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $508,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$10,036,000 of which $6,436,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2023 and of which $3,600,000 shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2926]]

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $126,595,000, which shall remain available until September 
30, 2023.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $18,871,410 which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$429,000,000 of which $20,128,950 shall remain available until September 
30, 2021 and of which $5,000,000 shall be allocated solely for the 
purpose of providing financial compensation to Senate interns.

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

 requiring amounts remaining in senators' official personnel and office 
   expense account to be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the 
                              federal debt

    Sec. 101.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any amounts 
appropriated under this Act under the heading ``SENATE'' under the 
heading ``Contingent Expenses of the Senate'' under the heading 
``senators' official personnel and office expense account'' shall be 
available for obligation only during the fiscal year or fiscal years for 
which such amounts are made available. Any unexpended balances under 
such allowances remaining after the end of the period of availability 
shall be returned to the Treasury in accordance with the undesignated 
paragraph under the center heading ``GENERAL PROVISION'' under chapter 
XI of the Third Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1957 (2 U.S.C. 4107) and 
used for deficit reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit 
after all such payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, 
in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).

               filing by senate candidates with commission

    Sec. 102.  Section 302(g) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30102(g)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Filing With the Commission.--All designations, statements, and 
reports required to be filed under this Act shall be filed with the 
Commission.''.

                         extension of authority

    Sec. 103.  Section 21(d) of Senate Resolution 64 of the One Hundred 
Thirteenth Congress, 1st session (agreed to on March

[[Page 132 STAT. 2927]]

5, 2013), as amended by section 178 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2017 (division C of Public Law 114-223), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,232,663,035, as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $25,378,875, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $7,123,634, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,642,739, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,751,946, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $2,197,163, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $1,700,079, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Republican 
Conference, $2,186,819; Democratic Caucus, $1,776,495:  Provided, That 
such amount for salaries and expenses shall remain available from 
January 3, 2019 until January 2, 2020.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $573,630,000.

                            Intern Allowance

    For payments from the allowance established under section 120 of 
this Act for the compensation of interns who serve in the offices of 
Members of the House of Representatives, $8,800,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $127,903,173:  Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2020, except that $4,000,000 of such amount shall remain 
available until expended for committee room upgrading.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$23,112,971, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be

[[Page 132 STAT. 2928]]

expended in accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 and to be available for reimbursement to 
agencies for services performed:  Provided, That such amount shall 
remain available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 2020.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $220,345,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including the positions of the Chaplain and the 
Historian, and including not more than $25,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, of which not more than $20,000 is 
for the Family Room and not more than $2,000 is for the Office of the 
Chaplain, $28,305,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of Garages 
and the Office of Emergency Management, and including not more than 
$3,000 for official representation and reception expenses, $18,773,000 
of which $5,524,000 shall remain available until expended; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer including 
not more than $3,000 for official representation and reception expenses, 
$148,058,000, of which $11,631,000 shall remain available until 
expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
General, $5,019,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of General 
Counsel, $1,502,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 for preparing the 
Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for official representation 
and reception expenses, $2,026,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $3,327,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the 
House, $11,937,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
Interparliamentary Affairs, $814,000; for other authorized employees, 
$584,000.

                         Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $253,493,016, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $525,016; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $190,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $228,200,000, to remain available 
until March 31, 2020; Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, 
$16,186,000 of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
transition activities for new members and staff, $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended; Wounded Warrior Program $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,670,000; 
and miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, 
repair and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary 
receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, 
$722,000.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2929]]

                        Administrative Provisions

 requiring amounts remaining in members' representational allowances to 
       be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the federal debt

    Sec. 110. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--
Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational Allowances'' shall be 
available only for fiscal year 2019. Any amount remaining after all 
payments are made under such allowances for fiscal year 2019 shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, if there 
is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for 
reducing the Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the 
Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the House 
of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                    delivery of bills and resolutions

    Sec. 111. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5347.>>  None of the funds made 
available in any fiscal year may be used to deliver a printed copy of a 
bill, joint resolution, or resolution to the office of a Member of the 
House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner 
to the Congress) unless the Member requests a copy.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                    delivery of congressional record

    Sec. 112. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5348.>>  None of the funds made 
available in any fiscal year may be used to deliver a printed copy of 
any version of the Congressional Record to the office of a Member of the 
House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner 
to the Congress).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

            limitation on amount available to lease vehicles

    Sec. 113.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to 
make any payments from any Members' Representational Allowance for the 
leasing of a vehicle, excluding mobile district offices, in an aggregate 
amount that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.

           limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house

    Sec. 114. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5349.>>  None of the funds made 
available in any fiscal year may be to provide an aggregate number of 
more than 50 printed copies of any edition of the United States Code to 
all offices of the House of Representatives.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2930]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                  delivery of reports of disbursements

    Sec. 115. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5350.>>  None of the funds made 
available in any fiscal year may be used to deliver a printed copy of 
the report of disbursements for the operations of the House of 
Representatives under section 106 of the House of Representatives 
Administration Reform Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5535) to the 
office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a Delegate 
or Resident Commissioner to the Congress).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                       delivery of daily calendar

    Sec. 116. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5351.>>  None of the funds made 
available in any fiscal year may be used to deliver to the office of a 
Member of the House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
Commissioner to the Congress) a printed copy of the Daily Calendar of 
the House of Representatives which is prepared by the Clerk of the House 
of Representatives.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

              delivery of congressional pictorial directory

    Sec. 117. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5352.>>  None of the funds made 
available in any fiscal year may be used to deliver a printed copy of 
the Congressional Pictorial Directory to the office of a Member of the 
House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner 
to the Congress).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

              repeal of authorizations for former speakers

    Sec. 118. (a) Repeal of Authorizations for Office Space, Office 
Expenses, Franking and Printing Privileges, and Staff.--The first 
section and sections 2, 4, 5, and 8 of House Resolution 1238, Ninety-
first Congress, agreed to December 22, 1970 (as enacted into permanent 
law by chapter VIII of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1971) (2 
U.S.C. 5125(a), 5126, 5127, 5128, and 5129) are repealed.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of the first section of 
Public Law 93-532 (2 U.S.C. 5125(b)) is repealed.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 5125 note.>>  Effective Date.--The 
amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any 
individual who serves as a Representative in Congress during the One 
Hundred Fifteenth Congress or any succeeding Congress.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 119. (a) Authority To Make Transfers Among House Leadership 
Offices.--Section 101 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993 
(2 U.S.C. 5507) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:

[[Page 132 STAT. 2931]]

    ``(f) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Amounts appropriated for any fiscal 
year for the House of Representatives under the heading `House 
Leadership Offices' may be transferred among and merged with the various 
offices and activities under such heading, effective upon the expiration 
of the 21-day period (or such alternative period that may be imposed by 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) which 
begins on the date such Committee has been notified of the transfer.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 5507 note.>>  Effective Date.--The 
amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal year 
2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

         allowance for compensation of interns in member offices

    Sec. 120. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 5322a.>>  Establishment of Allowance.--
There is established for the House of Representatives an allowance which 
shall be available for the compensation of interns who serve in the 
offices of Members of the House of Representatives.

    (b) Cap on Amount Available Per Office.--An office of a Member of 
the House of Representatives may not use more than $20,000 of the 
allowance under this section during any calendar year.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Benefit Exclusion.--Section 104(b) of 
the House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical Corrections 
Act (2 U.S.C. 5321(b)) shall apply with respect to an intern who is 
compensated under the allowance under this section in the same manner as 
such section applies with respect to an intern who is compensated under 
the Members' Representational Allowance.

    (d) No Effect on Payment of Interns Under Members' Representational 
Allowance.--Nothing in this section may be construed to affect the use 
of the Members' Representational Allowance for the compensation of 
interns, as provided under section 104 of the House of Representatives 
Administrative Reform Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5321).
    (e) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``intern'' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 104(c)(2) of the House of Representatives Administrative 
        Reform Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5321(c)(2)); and
            (2) the term ``Member of the House of Representatives'' 
        means a Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident 
        Commissioner to, the Congress.

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $8,800,000 for fiscal year 2019.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2932]]

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$11,169,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>  $2,740,000 for reimbursement 
        to the Department of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff 
        and equipment assigned to the Office of the Attending Physician, 
        which shall be advanced and credited to the applicable 
        appropriation or appropriations from which such salaries, 
        allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
        available for all the purposes thereof, $3,798,000, to be 
        disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,486,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, 
hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, retirement, 
social security, professional liability insurance, and other applicable 
employee benefits, $374,804,000 of which overtime shall not exceed 
$43,668,000 unless the Committee on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate are notified, to be disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police 
or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances,

[[Page 132 STAT. 2933]]

relocation of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on 
the certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $81,504,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for fiscal year 2019 shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland 
Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $6,332,670, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That not more than $500 may be expended 
on the certification of the Executive Director of the Office of 
Compliance in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $50,737,000:  Provided, that the Director shall use not less 
than $500,000 of the amount made available under this heading for (1) 
improving technical systems, processes, and models for the purpose of 
improving the transparency of estimates of budgetary effects to Members 
of Congress, employees of Members of Congress, and the public, and (2) 
to increase the availability of models, economic assumptions, and data 
for Members of Congress, employees of Members of Congress, and the 
public.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                   Capital Construction and Operations

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for all necessary expenses 
for surveys and studies, construction, operation, and general and 
administrative support in connection with facilities and activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol including the Botanic 
Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and House office 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Architect 
of the Capitol; including furnishings and office equipment; including 
not more than $5,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; for purchase 
or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a passenger motor vehicle, 
$103,962,000.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2934]]

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $43,992,000, of which $17,344,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2023.

                             Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $16,761,000, of which $5,519,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2023.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $187,098,000, of which $65,552,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2023, and of which $62,000,000 
shall remain available until expended for the restoration and renovation 
of the Cannon House Office Building;  Provided, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $7,000,000 shall be derived by transfer 
from the House Office Building Fund established under section 176(d) of 
the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2017, as added by section 101(3) of 
the Further Continuing Appropriation Act, 2017 (Public Law 114-254; 2 
U.S.C. 2001 note).
    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$93,562,000, of which $31,162,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2023.

                           Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Publishing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $114,050,000, of which $31,362,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2023:  Provided, That not more than $9,000,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2019.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2935]]

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$68,525,000, of which $40,403,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2023.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computing Facility, and 
Architect of the Capitol security operations, $57,714,000, of which 
$31,777,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2023.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $14,759,000, of which $3,559,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, That, of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established under 
section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 
U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol or 
a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $23,322,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

        no bonuses for contractors behind schedule or over budget

    Sec. 130.  None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
Architect of the Capitol may be used to make incentive or award payments 
to contractors for work on contracts or programs for which the 
contractor is behind schedule or over budget, unless the Architect of 
the Capitol, or agency-employed designee, determines that any such 
deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program.

                                 scrims

    Sec. 131. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for scrims containing photographs of building facades during 
restoration or construction projects performed by the Architect of the 
Capitol.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2936]]

                            security programs

    Sec. 132. (a) Purpose of Programs.--Section 906(b) of the 2002 
Supplemental Appropriations Act for Further Recovery From and Response 
To Terrorist Attacks on the United States (2 U.S.C. 1865(b)) is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(b) Funds in the account shall be used by the Architect of the 
Capitol for all necessary expenses for--
            ``(1) resilience and security programs of the Architect of 
        the Capitol; and
            ``(2) the maintenance, care, and operation of buildings, 
        grounds, and security enhancements for facilities of the United 
        States Capitol Police and for other facilities associated with 
        such resilience and security programs at any location.''.

    (b) Transfers of Funds.--Section 906 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 1865) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(c)(1) For carrying out the purposes of the account, the Architect 
of the Capitol may receive transfers of appropriations from any agency 
of the Legislative Branch upon the approval of--
            ``(A) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of a transfer from an office of the 
        House of Representatives;
            ``(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of a transfer from an office of the Senate; or
            ``(C) the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate, in the case of a transfer from 
        any other office of the Government.

    ``(2) Amounts transferred under this subsection shall be merged with 
the account and made available under this section.
    ``(3) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This subsection shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.''.

     increase in threshold for small purchase contracting authority

    Sec. 133. (a) 2 U.S.C. 1821 is amended by adding before 
``Notwithstanding any other provision of law--'' the following text: 
``To promote efficiency and economy in contracting and to avoid 
unnecessary burdens, the Architect of the Capitol is granted authority 
to utilize special simplified procedures for purchases of property and 
services the aggregate amount of which does not exceed $250,000.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 1821 note.>>  The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2019 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.

                           interagency details

    Sec. 134. (a) Authorizing Details of Employees Under Joint Agency 
Agreements.--In addition <<NOTE: 2 USC 1835.>>  to any other authority 
relating to the detail of employees, the Architect of the Capitol and 
the head of any other department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government may enter into a joint agency agreement under 
which--
            (1) employees of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol 
        (including employees of the United States Botanic Garden)

[[Page 132 STAT. 2937]]

        may be detailed to such department, agency, or instrumentality 
        on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis; and
            (2) employees of such department, agency, or instrumentality 
        may be detailed to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol on 
        a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Duration.--The detail of an employee 
under a joint agency agreement under this section shall be for such 
duration as may be provided in the agreement, except that in the case of 
a detail made on a non-reimbursable basis, the duration of the detail 
may not exceed one year unless the Architect of the Capitol and the head 
of the department, agency, or instrumentality involved each determine 
that an extension of the detail of the employee is in the public 
interest.

    (c) No Effect on Appropriations of Recipient of Non-reimbursable 
Detail.--For purposes of any law, rule, or regulation, the detail of an 
employee on a non-reimbursable basis under a joint agency agreement 
under this section for a fiscal year shall not be treated as an increase 
or modification of the appropriation for the fiscal year of the office 
to whom the employee is detailed.
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

         acceptance of travel expenses from non-federal sources

    Sec. 135. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 1873.>>  Permitting Acceptance of 
Expenses.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Architect of 
the Capitol may accept payment or authorize an employee of the Office of 
the Architect of the Capitol to accept payment on the Office's behalf 
from non-Federal sources for travel, subsistence, and related expenses 
with respect to attendance of the employee (or the spouse of such 
employee) at any meeting or similar function relating to the employee's 
official duties. Any cash payment so accepted shall be credited to the 
appropriation applicable to such expenses. In the case of a payment in 
kind so accepted, a pro rata reduction shall be made in any entitlement 
of the employee to payment from the Government for such expenses.

    (b) Prohibiting Acceptance From Other Sources.--Except as provided 
in this section or section 7342 of title 5, United States Code, the 
Office or an employee of the Office may not accept payment for expenses 
referred to in subsection (a). An employee who accepts any payment in 
violation of the preceding sentence--
            (1) may be required, in addition to any penalty provided by 
        law, to repay, for deposit in the general fund of the Treasury, 
        an amount equal to the amount of the payment so accepted; and
            (2) in the case of a repayment under paragraph (1), shall 
        not be entitled to any payment from the Government for such 
        expenses.

    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library

[[Page 132 STAT. 2938]]

buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of 
uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the custody of the Library; 
operation and maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the 
Library; preparation and distribution of catalog records and other 
publications of the Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor 
vehicle; and expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by the Board, 
$480,052,000, of which not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from 
collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2019, and 
shall remain available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150):  Provided, That the Library 
of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from 
collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts:  
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,000,000:  
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $8,855,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program:  
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $1,318,000 
shall remain available until expended for upgrade of the Legislative 
Branch Financial Management System:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $250,000 shall remain available until expended for 
the Surplus Books Program to promote the program and facilitate a 
greater number of donations to eligible entities across the United 
States:  Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$2,383,000 shall remain available until expended for the Veterans 
History Project to continue digitization efforts of already collected 
materials, reach a greater number of veterans to record their stories, 
and promote public access to the Project.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $93,407,000, of 
which not more than $39,218,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2019 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any funds 
derived from collections under such section, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts:  
Provided further, That not more than $6,272,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2019 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(3), 
803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, That the total 
amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $45,490,000:  Provided further, That 
$4,328,000 shall be derived from prior year unobligated balances:  
Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated 
is available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of

[[Page 132 STAT. 2939]]

training nationals of developing countries in intellectual property laws 
and policies:  Provided further, That not more than $6,500 may be 
expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for 
activities of the International Copyright Institute and for copyright 
delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United States 
Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 
203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $125,688,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General 
Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication 
has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate:  Provided further, That this 
prohibition does not apply to publication of non-confidential 
Congressional Research Service (CRS) products:  Provided further, That a 
non-confidential CRS product includes any written product containing 
research or analysis that is currently available for general 
congressional access on the CRS Congressional Intranet, or that would be 
made available on the CRS Congressional Intranet in the normal course of 
business and does not include material prepared in response to 
Congressional requests for confidential analysis or research.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $52,783,000:  Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to 
contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
residents at no cost to the individual.

                        Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 140. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2019, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $194,608,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from

[[Page 132 STAT. 2940]]

sources other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts 
for the legislative branch.

                      GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

                        Congressional Publishing

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized publishing of congressional information and the 
distribution of congressional information in any format; publishing of 
Government publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members 
of Congress; and publishing, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$79,000,000:  Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for 
preceding fiscal years:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time 
period. Effective date.>>  notwithstanding the 2-year limitation under 
section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of the funds 
appropriated or made available under this Act or any other Act for 
printing and binding and related services provided to Congress under 
chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to print a 
document, report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
the date that such document, report, or publication is authorized by 
Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in 
accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  unobligated or unexpended balances of 
expired discretionary funds made available under this heading in this 
Act for this fiscal year may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
under the heading ``Government Publishing Office Business Operations 
Revolving Fund'' no later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after 
the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes 
for which appropriated, to be available for carrying out the purposes of 
this heading, subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 906 of title 44, United States 
Code, this appropriation may be used to prepare indexes to the 
Congressional Record on only a monthly and session basis.

     Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the public information programs of the Office of 
Superintendent of Documents necessary to provide for the cataloging and 
indexing of Government publications and their distribution to the 
public, Members of Congress, other Government agencies, and designated 
depository and international exchange libraries as authorized by law, 
$32,000,000:  Provided, That amounts of not

[[Page 132 STAT. 2941]]

more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations are authorized for 
producing and disseminating Congressional serial sets and other related 
publications for fiscal years 2017 and 2018 to depository and other 
designated libraries:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  
unobligated or unexpended balances of expired discretionary funds made 
available under this heading in this Act for this fiscal year may be 
transferred to, and merged with, funds under the heading ``Government 
Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund'' no later than the 
end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such 
funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated, to be 
available for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.

     Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Publishing Office Business Operations 
Revolving Fund, $6,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
information technology development and facilities repair:  Provided, 
That the Government Publishing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund:  
Provided further, That not more than $7,500 may be expended on the 
certification of the Director of the Government Publishing Office in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses:  
Provided further, That the Business Operations Revolving Fund shall be 
available for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor 
vehicles:  Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel 
expenses of the advisory councils to the Director of the Government 
Publishing Office shall be deemed necessary to carry out the provisions 
of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That the Business 
Operations Revolving Fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of 
the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, That activities financed 
through the Business Operations Revolving Fund may provide information 
in any format:  Provided further, That the Business Operations Revolving 
Fund and the funds provided under the heading ``Public Information 
Programs of the Superintendent of Documents'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at Government Publishing Office's passport 
facility in the District of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in

[[Page 132 STAT. 2942]]

connection with official representation and reception expenses; 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily 
equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor 
vehicle; advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with 
section 3324 of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to 
those payable under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of 
living quarters in foreign countries, $589,749,653:  Provided, That, in 
addition, $35,900,000 of payments received under sections 782, 791, 
3521, and 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including necessary 
travel expenses of non-Federal participants: <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>   
Provided further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may be credited 
as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available to transfer amounts to the Department of the Army for the 
expenses of constructing an Army facility at Redstone Arsenal for the 
sole, unlimited use of the Government Accountability Office, and 
(notwithstanding section 1502(a) of title 31, United States Code) shall 
be available to transfer such amounts without regard to the fiscal year 
in which such expenses are incurred:  Provided further, That hereafter, 
amounts appropriated for the salaries and expenses of the Government 
Accountability Office shall be available to transfer to the Department 
of the Army for the maintenance of such facility.

                 OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$5,600,000:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Russia.>>  funds made available to 
support Russian participants shall only be used for those engaging in 
free market development, humanitarian activities, and civic engagement, 
and shall not be used for officials of the central government of Russia.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 U.S.C. 
1105), $430,000.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2943]]

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2019 unless expressly 
so provided in this Act.

                  rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 32 
et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation 
of any office or position appropriated for is different from that 
specifically established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the 
designation in this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: 
 Provided, That the provisions in this Act for the various items of 
official expenses of Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and 
House of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the 
House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect 
thereto.

                           consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                              costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         limitation on transfers

    Sec. 206.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made

[[Page 132 STAT. 2944]]

by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other 
appropriation Act.

                       guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 207. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of Congress 
and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate, unless 
through regulations as authorized by section 402(b)(8) of the Capitol 
Visitor Center Act of 2008 (2 U.S.C. 2242(b)(8)).
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

         limitation on telecommunications equipment procurement

    Sec. 208. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used to acquire telecommunications 
equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company, ZTE Corporation or a 
high-impact or moderate-impact information system, as defined for 
security categorization in the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology's (NIST) Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 
199, ``Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and 
Information Systems'' unless the agency, office, or other entity 
acquiring the equipment or system has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform acquisition 
        decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact information 
        systems within the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
        appropriate agencies; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Consultation. Assessment. China. Iran. North 
        Korea. Russia.>>  in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted an 
        assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage associated 
        with the acquisition of such system, including any risk 
        associated with such system being produced, manufactured, or 
        assembled by one or more entities identified by the United 
        States Government as posing a cyber threat, including but not 
        limited to, those that may be owned, directed, or subsidized by 
        the People's Republic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
        the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or the Russian 
        Federation.

    (b) <<NOTE: Consultations.>>  None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-
impact or moderate impact information system reviewed and assessed under 
subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity described in 
subsection (a) has--

[[Page 132 STAT. 2945]]

            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
        risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
        identified risks;
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  determined, in consultation 
        with NIST and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, that the 
        acquisition of such system is in the vital national security 
        interest of the United States; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  reported that determination to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate in a manner that identifies the system intended for 
        acquisition and a detailed description of the mitigation 
        strategies identified in (1), provided that such report may 
        include a classified annex as necessary.

               prohibition on certain operational expenses

    Sec. 209. (a) <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities or other official government activities.

                         plastic waste reduction

    Sec. 210.  All <<NOTE: Coordination. Consultation.>>  agencies and 
offices funded by this division that contract with a food service 
provider or providers shall confer and coordinate with such food service 
provider or providers, in consultation with disability advocacy groups, 
to eliminate or reduce plastic waste, including waste from plastic 
straws, explore the use of biodegradable items, and increase recycling 
and composting opportunities.

                    agency cost of living adjustments

    Sec. 211. (a) <<NOTE: Reports. Estimate.>>  Each agency, office, or 
other entity that is provided appropriations under this Division shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate, not 
less than 30 days after enactment of this Act, specifying the dollar 
amount estimated for cost-of-living adjustments that was included in the 
fiscal year 2019 budget request for each appropriations account.

    (b) In the event that Executive Branch agencies do not receive a 
cost-of-living adjustment, such dollar amount reported pursuant to 
subsection (a) may be obligated and expended only upon written approval 
by the Chair and ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on the 
Legislative Branch of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and by the Chair and ranking minority member of the 
Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate.
    (c) Pursuant to subsection (b), the agencies, offices, or other 
entities of the House of Representatives and the Senate require only the 
written approval of the Committee on Appropriations of their respective 
Chamber.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2946]]

                       adjustments to compensation

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 2 USC 4501 note.>>  any other 
provision of law, no adjustment shall be made under section 601(a) of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501) (relating to 
cost of living adjustments for Members of Congress) during fiscal year 
2019.

    This division may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2019''.

 DIVISION C--MILITARY <<NOTE: Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019.>>  CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS 
AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                       Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Army as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other personal services 
necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction 
and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander 
in Chief, $1,021,768,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023:  
Provided, That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of this amount, 
not to exceed $110,068,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as 
authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Army determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $2,118,619,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2023:  Provided, That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of this 
amount, not to exceed $185,542,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Secretary of the Navy determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, 
$1,440,323,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, 
That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of this amount, not to 
exceed $206,577,000

[[Page 132 STAT. 2947]]

shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Air 
Force determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                   Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real 
property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other 
than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$2,550,728,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  such amounts of this appropriation as may 
be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such 
appropriations of the Department of Defense available for military 
construction or family housing as the Secretary may designate, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same 
time period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred:  
Provided further, That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of the 
amount, not to exceed $192,345,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $190,122,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2023:  Provided, That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of 
the amount, not to exceed $16,622,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Director of the Army National Guard determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $129,126,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2023:  Provided, That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of 
the amount, not to exceed $18,500,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Director of the Air National Guard determines that 
additional

[[Page 132 STAT. 2948]]

obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                   Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, 
and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $64,919,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, 
That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of the amount, not to 
exceed $5,855,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Chief 
of the Army Reserve determines that additional obligations are necessary 
for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                   Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $43,065,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2023:  Provided, That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of the 
amount, not to exceed $4,695,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $38,063,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, 
That, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  of the amount, not to 
exceed $4,055,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Chief 
of the Air Force Reserve determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor:  Provided further, That, the Chief of the Air Force 
Reserve shall take immediate action to address unfunded military 
construction requirements for access control points and security issues 
at Air Force Reserve facilities.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                       Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations

[[Page 132 STAT. 2949]]

(including international military headquarters) and for related expenses 
for the collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as 
authorized by section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military 
Construction Authorization Acts, $171,064,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account, 
established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $342,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $330,660,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2023.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by 
law, $376,509,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $104,581,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2023.

     Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as 
authorized by law, $314,536,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $78,446,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2023.

           Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by 
law, $317,274,000.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2950]]

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $58,373,000.

                          Department of Defense

                     Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$1,653,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

                          Department of Defense

             Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund, $600,000, to remain available until expended, for 
unaccompanied housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring 
and improving military unaccompanied housing and supporting facilities.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction shall 
be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized by 
section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized 
therein are certified as important to the national defense by the 
Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None <<NOTE: Determination.>>  of the funds made 
available in this title shall be used for purchase of land or land 
easements in excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the 
Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, 
except: (1) where there is a determination of value by a Federal court; 
(2) purchases negotiated by the Attorney General or the designee of the 
Attorney General; (3) where the estimated value is less than $25,000; or 
(4) as otherwise determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the 
public interest.

    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or

[[Page 132 STAT. 2951]]

(3) install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such steel 
procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None <<NOTE: Notification.>>  of the funds made available 
in this title may be used to initiate a new installation overseas 
without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.

    Sec. 111.  None <<NOTE: Contracts. Japan.>>  of the funds made 
available in this title may be obligated for architect and engineer 
contracts estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to 
be accomplished in Japan, in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
member country, or in countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such 
contracts are awarded to United States firms or United States firms in 
joint venture with host nation firms.

    Sec. 112.  None <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  of the funds made available in 
this title for military construction in the United States territories 
and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries 
bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract estimated 
by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor:  
Provided, That this section shall not be applicable to contract awards 
for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a United States 
contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a 
foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent:  Provided further, That 
this section shall not apply to contract awards for military 
construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and 
responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese contractor.

    Sec. 113.  The <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Secretary of Defense shall 
inform the appropriate committees of both Houses of Congress, including 
the Committees on Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed 
military exercise involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its 
occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either temporary or 
permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.

    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects that 
are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency

[[Page 132 STAT. 2952]]

for the construction of military projects may be obligated for a 
military construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a 
project or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal 
year after the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made 
available, if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated 
from funds available for military construction projects; and (2) do not 
exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by 
which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117.  Subject <<NOTE: Determination.>>  to 30 days prior 
notification, or 14 days for a notification provided in an electronic 
medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States 
Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, 
such additional amounts as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense 
may be transferred to: (1) the Department of Defense Family Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family 
Housing'' accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
purposes and for the same period of time as amounts appropriated 
directly to the Fund; or (2) the Department of Defense Military 
Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for 
construction of military unaccompanied housing in ``Military 
Construction'' accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the 
same purposes and for the same period of time as amounts appropriated 
directly to the Fund:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Loans.>>  appropriations 
made available to the Funds shall be available to cover the costs, as 
defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the Department of Defense 
pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
United States Code, pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and 
improving military family housing, military unaccompanied housing, and 
supporting facilities.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account to the fund established by 
section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated with the 
Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). 
Any amounts transferred shall be merged with and be available for the 
same purposes and for the same time period as the fund to which 
transferred.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 10 USC 2821 note.>>  any other 
provision of law, funds made available in this title for operation and 
maintenance of family housing shall be the exclusive source of funds for 
repair and maintenance of all family housing units, including general or 
flag officer quarters:  Provided, That not more than $35,000 per unit 
may be spent annually for the maintenance and repair of any general or 
flag officer quarters without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for 
a notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact 
notification shall be submitted if the limitation

[[Page 132 STAT. 2953]]

is exceeded solely due to costs associated with environmental 
remediation that could not be reasonably anticipated at the time of the 
budget submission:  Provided further,  That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the 
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress all operation 
and maintenance expenditures for each individual general or flag officer 
quarters for the prior fiscal year.

    Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United States 
Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for the 
purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 121.  During <<NOTE: Determination.>>  the 5-year period after 
appropriations available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
military construction and family housing operation and maintenance and 
construction have expired for obligation, upon a determination that such 
appropriations will not be necessary for the liquidation of obligations 
or for making authorized adjustments to such appropriations for 
obligations incurred during the period of availability of such 
appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations may be 
transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Construction, Defense'', to be merged with and to be available for the 
same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred.

    Sec. 122. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available in this Act may be used by the Secretary of the 
Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--
            (1) performs a testing mission or function that is not 
        performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
        stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) is located at a military installation at which the total 
        number of civilian employees of the Department of the Army and 
        Army contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 percent of the 
        total number of members of the regular and reserve components of 
        the Army assigned to the installation.

    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  shall not 
apply if the Secretary of the Army certifies to the congressional 
defense committees that in proposing the relocation of the unit of the 
Army, the Secretary complied with Army Regulation 5-10 relating to the 
policy, procedures, and responsibilities for Army stationing actions.

    Sec. 123.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred among 
projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of March 2011, as in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2954]]

    Sec. 125.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified, to remain available until September 30, 2023:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $94,100,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $196,850,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $118,450,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', $22,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $54,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $23,000,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force Reserve'', $84,800,000:

  Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects identified in the respective military department's 
unfunded priority list for fiscal year 2019 submitted to Congress:  
Provided further, That such projects are subject to authorization prior 
to obligation and expenditure of funds to carry out construction:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  not later 
than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military 
department concerned, or his or her designee, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section.

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 126.  Of the unobligated balances available to the Department 
of Defense from prior appropriation Acts, the following funds are hereby 
rescinded from the following accounts in the amounts specified:
            ``NATO Security Investment Program'', $25,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $31,158,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', $10,000,000;
            ``Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $2,138,000; and
            ``The fund established in section 1013(d) of the 
        Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 
        (42 U.S.C. 3374)'', $15,333,000:

  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism or as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 127.  For <<NOTE: Definition.>>  the purposes of this Act, the 
term ``congressional defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 128.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out the closure or realignment of the United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 129.  
Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Analysis. Reports. Certification.>>  any other 
provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to consolidate or 
relocate any element of a United States Air Force Rapid Engineer 
Deployable Heavy

[[Page 132 STAT. 2955]]

Operational Repair Squadron Engineer (RED HORSE) outside of the United 
States until the Secretary of the Air Force: (1) completes an analysis 
and comparison of the cost and infrastructure investment required to 
consolidate or relocate a RED HORSE squadron outside of the United 
States versus within the United States; (2) provides to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress (``the Committees'') a 
report detailing the findings of the cost analysis; and (3) certifies in 
writing to the Committees that the preferred site for the consolidation 
or relocation yields the greatest savings for the Air Force:  Provided, 
That the term ``United States'' in this section does not include any 
territory or possession of the United States.

    Sec. 130.  Notwithstanding section 124 of this Act, for an 
additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'' in this title, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended, is provided for 
completion of the Defense Access Roads project and land acquisition for 
Arlington National Cemetery as authorized by section 2101 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-
92) and section 2829A of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328):  Provided, That such funds shall 
be in addition to any other funds made available in this or prior year 
Acts for such purposes, including funds made available by section 132 of 
the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 114-113).
    Sec. 131.  All amounts appropriated to the ``Department of Defense--
Military Construction, Army'', ``Department of Defense--Military 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', ``Department of Defense--Military 
Construction, Air Force'', and ``Department of Defense--Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide'' accounts pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in a National Defense Authorization Act specified for 
fiscal year 2019 in the funding table in section 4601 of that Act shall 
be immediately available and allotted to contract for the full scope of 
authorized projects.
    Sec. 132.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified, for enhancing force protection and safety at military 
installations, to remain available until September 30, 2023:
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $50,000,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $50,000,000:

  Provided, That such projects are subject to authorization prior to 
obligation and expenditure of funds to carry out construction:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  not later than 30 
days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military 
department concerned, or his or her designee, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the military department concerned may not obligate or 
expend any funds prior to approval by the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress of the expenditure plan required by this 
section.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2956]]

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of veterans 
and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized by section 
107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized 
by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code; and 
burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program for Survivors, 
emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-service credits 
and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial life insurance 
policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of the 
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and for 
other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, and 
chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$2,994,366,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that become available on October 1, 
2018, to remain available until expended; and, in addition, 
$109,017,152,000 shall become available on October 1, 2019:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  not to exceed $18,047,000 of the amount 
made available for fiscal year 2020 under this heading shall be 
reimbursed to ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', and ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
appropriation: <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>   Provided further, That such 
sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be 
reimbursed to ``Medical Care Collections Fund'' to augment the funding 
of individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided to 
pensioners as authorized.

                          readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or on 
behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 
39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$14,065,282,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2019:  Provided, That expenses for 
rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $111,340,000, which shall

[[Page 132 STAT. 2957]]

become available on October 1, 2019, and shall remain available until 
expended.

                  veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost <<NOTE: Loans.>>  of direct and guaranteed loans, such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 
subchapters I through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code: 
 Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974:  Provided further, That, during fiscal year 2019, within the 
resources available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for 
direct loans are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.

    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $200,612,000.

             vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $39,000, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,037,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $396,000, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,163,000.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of Defense 
for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,956,316,000:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  expenses for services and assistance 
authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) 
of title 38, United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
determines are necessary to enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum 
extent feasible, to become employable and to obtain and maintain 
suitable employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily 
living, shall be charged to this account:  Provided further, That, of 
the funds made available under this heading, not to exceed 10 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2958]]

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 1705(a) 
of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment in 
facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and including 
medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food services, 
and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under title 38, 
United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by section 1741 of 
title 38, United States Code, assistance and support services for 
caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, United States 
Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the Caregivers and 
Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-163; 124 
Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), monthly assistance allowances 
authorized by section 322(d) of title 38, United States Code, grants 
authorized by section 521A of title 38, United States Code, and 
administrative expenses necessary to carry out sections 322(d) and 521A 
of title 38, United States Code, and hospital care and medical services 
authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States Code; 
$750,000,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that become available on October 1, 
2018; and, in addition, $51,411,165,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
become available on October 1, 2019, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2019, under this heading, $1,500,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall establish a priority for the provision of medical 
treatment for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
income, or have special needs:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall give 
priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to veterans 
in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription drugs from Veterans 
Health Administration facilities to enrolled veterans with privately 
written prescriptions based on requirements established by the 
Secretary:  Provided further, That the implementation of the program 
described in the previous proviso shall incur no additional cost to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts appropriated under 
this heading for medical supplies and equipment are available for the 
acquisition of prosthetics designed specifically for female veterans.

                         medical community care

    For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to individuals 
pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
Department facilities, $1,000,000,000, which shall be in addition to 
funds previously appropriated under this heading that become available 
on October 1, 2018; and, in addition, $10,758,399,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2019, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided,

[[Page 132 STAT. 2959]]

That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2019, under this 
heading, $2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), 
$7,239,156,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2019, and shall remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2019, under this 
heading, $100,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by the 
hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases of 
facilities; and for laundry services; $90,180,000, which shall be in 
addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that become 
available on October 1, 2018; and, in addition, $6,141,880,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2019, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That, of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2019, under this heading, 
$250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                     medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of title 
38, United States Code, $779,000,000, plus reimbursements, shall remain 
available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $27,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2023:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts appropriated under this 
heading are available for prosthetic research specifically for female 
veterans, and for toxic exposure research.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for,

[[Page 132 STAT. 2960]]

including uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as 
authorized by law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in 
cemeterial operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, 
alteration or improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the 
National Cemetery Administration, $315,836,000, of which not to exceed 
10 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                       Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $355,897,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading may be transferred to ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

                        board of veterans appeals

    For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans Appeals, 
$174,748,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2020.

                     information technology systems

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said acquisitions, 
including contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $4,103,000,000, plus 
reimbursements:  Provided, That $1,199,220,000 shall be for pay and 
associated costs, of which not to exceed 3 percent shall remain 
available until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That 
$2,523,209,000 shall be for operations and maintenance, of which not to 
exceed 5 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided further, That $380,571,000 shall be for information technology 
systems development, and shall remain available until September 30, 
2020:  Provided further, That amounts made available for salaries and 
expenses, operations and maintenance, and information technology systems 
development may be transferred among the three subaccounts after the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided

[[Page 132 STAT. 2961]]

further, That amounts made available for the ``Information Technology 
Systems'' account for development may be transferred among projects or 
to newly defined projects:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time 
period.>>  no project may be increased or decreased by more than 
$1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a request to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an 
approval is issued, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
elapsed:  Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
heading for information technology systems development shall be for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified under this heading in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act.

                    veterans electronic health record

    For activities related to implementation, preparation, development, 
interface, management, rollout, and maintenance of a Veterans Electronic 
Health Record system, including contractual costs associated with 
operations authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
and salaries and expenses of employees hired under titles 5 and 38, 
United States Code, $1,107,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress quarterly reports detailing obligations, expenditures, and 
deployment implementation by facility:  Provided further, That the funds 
provided in this account shall only be available to the Office of the 
Deputy Secretary, to be administered by that Office:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  none of the funds made available under 
this heading may be obligated in a manner inconsistent with deployment 
schedules provided to the Committees on Appropriations unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of such change and an approval is issued.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $192,000,000, of which 
not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 30, 
2020.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is more than 
the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States 
Code, or where funds for a project were made available in a previous 
major project appropriation, $1,127,486,000, of which $647,486,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2023, and of which

[[Page 132 STAT. 2962]]

$480,000,000 shall remain available until expended, of which 
$400,000,000 shall be available for seismic improvement projects and 
seismic program management activities, including for projects that would 
otherwise be funded by the Construction, Minor Projects, Medical 
Facilities or National Cemetery Administration accounts:  Provided, That 
except for advance planning activities, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other capital 
asset management related activities, including portfolio development and 
management activities, and investment strategy studies funded through 
the advance planning fund and the planning and design activities funded 
through the design fund, including needs assessments which may or may 
not lead to capital investments, and salaries and associated costs of 
the resident engineers who oversee those capital investments funded 
through this account and contracting officers who manage specific major 
construction projects, and funds provided for the purchase, security, 
and maintenance of land for the National Cemetery Administration through 
the land acquisition line item, none of the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used for any project that has not been notified to 
Congress through the budgetary process or that has not been approved by 
the Congress through statute, joint resolution, or in the explanatory 
statement accompanying such Act and presented to the President at the 
time of enrollment:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Contracts. Deadlines.>>  funds made available under this 
heading for fiscal year 2019, for each approved project shall be 
obligated: (1) by the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
September 30, 2019; and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract 
by September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a written report on any 
approved major construction project for which obligations are not 
incurred within the time limitations established above:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the requirements of section 8104(a) of 
title 38, United States Code, amounts made available under this heading 
for seismic improvement projects and seismic program management 
activities shall be available for the completion of both new and 
existing seismic projects of the Department.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage 
system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the estimated 
cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, $649,514,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2023, along with unobligated 
balances of previous ``Construction, Minor Projects'' appropriations 
which are hereby made available for any project where the estimated cost 
is equal to or less than the amount set forth in such section:  
Provided,

[[Page 132 STAT. 2963]]

That funds made available under this heading shall be for: (1) repairs 
to any of the nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the 
use of the Department which are necessary because of loss or damage 
caused by any natural disaster or catastrophe; and (2) temporary 
measures necessary to prevent or to minimize further loss by such 
causes.

                       grants for construction of 
                     state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $45,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                        Administrative Provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2019 for ``Compensation 
and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and ``Veterans Insurance and 
Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary to any other of the 
mentioned appropriations:  Provided, That, <<NOTE: Time period.>>  
before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue an 
approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2019, in this or any other Act, under the 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'' accounts may be transferred 
among the accounts:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  any 
transfers among the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', 
and ``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of 
the total amount appropriated to the account in this or any other Act 
may take place subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
of the amount and purpose of the transfer:  Provided further, That any 
transfers among the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', 
and ``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, 
or exceeding the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take 
place only after the Secretary requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That any 
transfers to or from the

[[Page 132 STAT. 2964]]

``Medical Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.

    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and ``Construction, 
Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for or 
toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>  appropriations in this 
title shall be available for hospitalization or examination of any 
persons (except beneficiaries entitled to such hospitalization or 
examination under the laws providing such benefits to veterans, and 
persons receiving such treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of 
title 5, United States Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless 
reimbursement of the cost of such hospitalization or examination is made 
to the ``Medical Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for ``Compensation 
and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and ``Veterans Insurance and 
Indemnities'' shall be available for payment of prior year accrued 
obligations required to be recorded by law against the corresponding 
prior year accounts within the last quarter of fiscal year 2018.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be available 
to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations 
accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 3712(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, except that if such obligations are from trust fund 
accounts they shall be payable only from ``Compensation and Pensions''.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>  any other 
provision of law, during fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall, from the National Service Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1920 of title 38, United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life 
Insurance Fund under section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and 
the United States Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of 
title 38, United States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' and ``Information 
Technology Systems'' accounts for the cost of administration of the 
insurance programs financed through those accounts:  Provided, That 
reimbursement shall be made only from the surplus earnings accumulated 
in such an insurance program during fiscal year 2019 that are available 
for dividends in that program after claims have been paid and 
actuarially determined reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, 
That if the cost of administration of such an insurance program exceeds 
the amount of surplus earnings accumulated in that program, 
reimbursement shall be made only to the

[[Page 132 STAT. 2965]]

extent of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  the Secretary shall determine the cost of 
administration for fiscal year 2019 which is properly allocable to the 
provision of each such insurance program and to the provision of any 
total disability income insurance included in that insurance program.

    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management, the Office of Employment Discrimination 
Complaint Adjudication, the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower 
Protection, and the Office of Diversity and Inclusion for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to exceed 
$48,431,000 for the Office of Resolution Management, $4,333,000 for the 
Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication, $17,700,000 
for the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection, and 
$3,230,000 for the Office of Diversity and Inclusion:  Provided, That 
payments may be made in advance for services to be furnished based on 
estimated costs:  Provided further, That amounts received shall be 
credited to the ``General Administration'' and ``Information Technology 
Systems'' accounts for use by the office that provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, 
for a non-service-connected disability described in section 1729(a)(2) 
of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may require, current, 
accurate third-party reimbursement information for purposes of section 
1729 of such title:  Provided, That the Secretary may recover, in the 
same manner as any other debt due the United States, the reasonable 
charges for such care or services from any person who does not make such 
disclosure as required:  Provided further, That any amounts so recovered 
for care or services provided in a prior fiscal year may be obligated by 
the Secretary during the fiscal year in which amounts are received.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major Projects'' and 
``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used for construction 
(including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, and 
improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for the 
use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized are in 
addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
and ``Construction, Minor Projects''.
    Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical Services'' are 
available--

[[Page 132 STAT. 2966]]

            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment; and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Community Care'' accounts to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 215.  The <<NOTE: Alaska. Native Americans.>>  Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs may enter into agreements with Federally Qualified 
Health Centers in the State of Alaska and Indian tribes and tribal 
organizations which are party to the Alaska Native Health Compact with 
the Indian Health Service, to provide healthcare, including behavioral 
health and dental care, to veterans in rural Alaska. The Secretary shall 
require participating veterans and facilities to comply with all 
appropriate rules and regulations, as established by the 
Secretary. <<NOTE: Definition.>>  The term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean 
those lands which are not within the boundaries of the municipality of 
Anchorage or the Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 217.  Not <<NOTE: Reports.>>  later than 30 days after the end 
of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report 
on the financial status of the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
preceding quarter:  Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
include the direction contained in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly 
reporting'', under the heading ``General Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 218.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``Board of Veterans Appeals'', ``General 
Administration'', and ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for 
fiscal year 2019 may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That such transfers may not 
result in a more than 10 percent aggregate increase in the total amount 
made available by this Act for the ``Information Technology Systems'' 
account:  Provided further, That, before a transfer may take place, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2967]]

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 219.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2019 for ``Medical Services'', ``Medical 
Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', ``Medical 
Facilities'', ``Construction, Minor Projects'', and ``Information 
Technology Systems'', up to $301,578,000, plus reimbursements, may be 
transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public 
Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the 
facilities designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4500):  Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: <<NOTE: Ante, p. 817.>>   Provided further, That section 220 
of title II of division J of Public Law 115-141 is repealed.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs which become available on October 1, 2019, for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', up to $307,609,000, plus 
reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
established by section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used 
for operation of the facilities designated as combined Federal medical 
facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4500):  Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  additional funds 
may be transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 221.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-
84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities designated 
as combined Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of 
the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal

[[Page 132 STAT. 2968]]

Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding section 1704(b)(3) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), amounts 
transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund shall remain available until 
expended.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as 
authorized by section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to remain 
available until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of 
title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 223.  None of the funds available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, in this or any other Act, may be used to replace the current 
system by which the Veterans Integrated Service Networks select and 
contract for diabetes monitoring supplies and equipment.
    Sec. 224.  The <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of all bid savings in a major construction project that total 
at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the 
project, whichever is less:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  such 
notification shall occur within 14 days of a contract identifying the 
programmed amount:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time period.>>  the 
Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of such bid savings and 
shall describe the anticipated use of such savings.

    Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available for ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' may be used for a project in excess of the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 226.  Not <<NOTE: Reports.>>  later than 30 days after the end 
of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
quarterly report containing performance measures and data from each 
Veterans Benefits Administration Regional Office:  Provided, That, at a 
minimum, the report shall include the direction contained in the section 
entitled ``Disability claims backlog'', under the heading ``General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223:  Provided 
further, That the report shall also include information on the number of 
appeals pending at the Veterans Benefits Administration as well as the 
Board of Veterans Appeals on a quarterly basis.

    Sec. 227.  The <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall provide written notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 15 days prior to 
organizational changes which result in the transfer of 25 or more full-
time equivalents from one organizational unit of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to another.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2969]]

    Sec. 228.  The <<NOTE: Notifications.>>  Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall provide on a quarterly basis to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress notification of any single 
national outreach and awareness marketing campaign in which obligations 
exceed $2,000,000.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 229.  The <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, upon determination that such action is necessary to address 
needs of the Veterans Health Administration, may transfer to the 
``Medical Services'' account any discretionary appropriations made 
available for fiscal year 2019 in this title (except appropriations made 
to the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' 
account) or any discretionary unobligated balances within the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal year 2019, 
that were provided in advance by appropriations Acts:  Provided, That 
transfers shall be made only with the approval of the Office of 
Management and Budget:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law:  Provided further, That no amounts may be transferred 
from amounts that were designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for 
higher priority items, based on emergent healthcare requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item 
for which funds are requested has been denied by Congress:  Provided 
further, That, upon determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from an appropriation are not necessary, such amounts may be 
transferred back to that appropriation and shall be available for the 
same purposes as originally appropriated:  Provided further, That before 
a transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
the authority to make the transfer and receive approval of that request.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 230.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2019, under the ``Board of Veterans Appeals'' 
and the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' 
accounts may be transferred between such accounts:  Provided, That 
before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and receive approval of that 
request.
    Sec. 231.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not reprogram funds 
among major construction projects or programs if such instance of 
reprogramming will exceed $7,000,000, unless such reprogramming is 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 232. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that 
the toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United 
States Code--
            (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline 
        immediate assistance from a trained professional; and

[[Page 132 STAT. 2970]]

            (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association 
        of Suicidology.

    (b)(1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
enforce or otherwise carry out any Executive action that prohibits the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from appointing an individual to occupy a 
vacant civil service position, or establishing a new civil service 
position, at the Department of Veterans Affairs with respect to such a 
position relating to the hotline specified in subsection (a).
    (2) <<NOTE: Definitions.>>  In this subsection--
            (A) the term ``civil service'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 2101(1) of title 5, United States Code; and
            (B) the term ``Executive action'' includes--
                    (i) any Executive order, presidential memorandum, or 
                other action by the President; and
                    (ii) any agency policy, order, or other directive.

    (c)(1) <<NOTE: Study. Time period. Analysis. Data.>>  The Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a study on the effectiveness of the 
hotline specified in subsection (a) during the five-year period 
beginning on January 1, 2016, based on an analysis of national suicide 
data and data collected from such hotline.

    (2) At a minimum, the study required by paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) determine the number of veterans who contact the hotline 
        specified in subsection (a) and who receive follow up services 
        from the hotline or mental health services from the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs thereafter;
            (B) determine the number of veterans who contact the hotline 
        who are not referred to, or do not continue receiving, mental 
        health care who commit suicide; and
            (C) determine the number of veterans described in 
        subparagraph (A) who commit or attempt suicide.

    Sec. 233.  None <<NOTE: Reports.>>  of the funds in this or any 
other Act may be used to close Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) 
hospitals, domiciliaries, or clinics, conduct an environmental 
assessment, or to diminish healthcare services at existing Veterans 
Health Administration medical facilities located in Veterans Integrated 
Service Network 23 as part of a planned realignment of VA services until 
the Secretary provides to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a report including the following elements:
            (1) <<NOTE: Strategy. Plans.>>  a national realignment 
        strategy that includes a detailed description of realignment 
        plans within each Veterans Integrated Services Network (VISN), 
        including an updated Long Range Capital Plan to implement 
        realignment requirements;
            (2) an explanation of the process by which those plans were 
        developed and coordinated within each VISN;
            (3) <<NOTE: Analysis.>>  a cost versus benefit analysis of 
        each planned realignment, including the cost of replacing 
        Veterans Health Administration services with contract care or 
        other outsourced services;
            (4) <<NOTE: Analysis.>>  an analysis of how any such planned 
        realignment of services will impact access to care for veterans 
        living in rural or highly rural areas, including travel 
        distances and transportation costs to access a VA medical 
        facility and availability of local specialty and primary care;
            (5) <<NOTE: Inventory.>>  an inventory of VA buildings with 
        historic designation and the methodology used to determine the 
        buildings' condition and utilization;

[[Page 132 STAT. 2971]]

            (6) a description of how any realignment will be consistent 
        with requirements under the National Historic Preservation Act; 
        and
            (7) consideration given for reuse of historic buildings 
        within newly identified realignment requirements:  Provided, 
        That, this provision shall not apply to capital projects in VISN 
        23, or any other VISN, which have been authorized or approved by 
        Congress.

    Sec. 234.  Effective <<NOTE: Time period.>>  during the period 
beginning on October 1, 2018 and ending on January 1, 2024, none of the 
funds made available to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by this or any 
other Act may be obligated or expended in contravention of the 
``Veterans Health Administration Clinical Preventive Services Guidance 
Statement on the Veterans Health Administration's Screening for Breast 
Cancer Guidance'' published on May 10, 2017, as issued by the Veterans 
Health Administration National Center for Health Promotion and Disease 
Prevention.

    Sec. 235. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for the ``Medical Services'' account may be used to 
provide--
            (1) fertility counseling and treatment using assisted 
        reproductive technology to a covered veteran or the spouse of a 
        covered veteran; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Adoption. Reimbursement. Definitions.>>  
        adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran.

    (b) In this section:
            (1) The term ``service-connected'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``covered veteran'' means a veteran, as such 
        term is defined in section 101 of title 38, United States Code, 
        who has a service-connected disability that results in the 
        inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of 
        fertility treatment.
            (3) The term ``assisted reproductive technology'' means 
        benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a 
        member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or 
        illness on active duty pursuant to section 1074(c)(4)(A) of 
        title 10, United States Code, as described in the memorandum on 
        the subject of ``Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for 
        the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or 
        III) Active Duty Service Members'' issued by the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and 
        the guidance issued to implement such policy, including any 
        limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a 
        member except that--
                    (A) the time periods regarding embryo 
                cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) 
                and in part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; 
                and
                    (B) such term includes embryo cryopreservation and 
                storage without limitation on the duration of such 
                cryopreservation and storage.
            (4) The term ``adoption reimbursement'' means reimbursement 
        for the adoption-related expenses for an adoption that is 
        finalized after the date of the enactment of this Act under the 
        same terms as apply under the adoption reimbursement

[[Page 132 STAT. 2972]]

        program of the Department of Defense, as authorized in 
        Department of Defense Instruction 1341.09, including the 
        reimbursement limits and requirements set forth in such 
        instruction.

    (c) Amounts made available for the purposes specified in subsection 
(a) of this section are subject to the requirements for funds contained 
in section 508 of division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2018 (Public Law 115-141).

                          (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 236.  Of the funds made available for fiscal year 2019 under 
the heading ``Department of Veterans Affairs--Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Support and Compliance'' in title II of division 
J of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141), 
$211,000,000 is hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 237.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with: (1) section 
842 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the 
Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2506); or (2) 
section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 238.  Section 842 of Public Law 109-115 shall not apply to 
conversion of an activity or function of the Veterans Health 
Administration, Veterans Benefits Administration, or National Cemetery 
Administration to contractor performance by a business concern that is 
at least 51 percent owned by one or more Indian tribes as defined in 
section 5304(e) of title 25, United States Code, or one or more Native 
Hawaiian Organizations as defined in section 637(a)(15) of title 15, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 239. (a) <<NOTE: Deadlines. 38 USC 5701 note prec.>>  Except as 
provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor, 
shall discontinue using Social Security account numbers to identify 
individuals in all information systems of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs as follows:
            (1) For all veterans submitting to the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs new claims for benefits under laws administered by the 
        Secretary, not later than 5 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) For all individuals not described in paragraph (1), not 
        later than 8 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (b) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use a Social Security 
account number to identify an individual in an information system of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs if and only if the use of such number is 
required to obtain information the Secretary requires from an 
information system that is not under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
    Sec. 240.  For <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  funds provided to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2019 and 2020 for 
``Medical Services'', section 239 of Division A of Public Law 114-223 
shall apply.

    Sec. 241.  None of the funds appropriated in this or prior 
appropriations Acts or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs may be used to transfer any amounts from the Filipino 
Veterans Equity Compensation Fund to any other account within the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2973]]

    Sec. 242.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for each of fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020 for ``Medical 
Services'', funds may be used in each year to carry out and expand the 
child care program authorized by section 205 of Public Law 111-163, 
notwithstanding subsection (e) of such section.
    Sec. 243.  For <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  funds provided to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2019 and 2020, 
section of Division A of Public Law 114-223 shall apply.

    Sec. 244. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use amounts 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this title to ensure that 
the ratio of veterans to full-time employment equivalents within any 
program of rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 38, United 
States Code, does not exceed 125 veterans to one full-time employment 
equivalent.
    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report on the programs of rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of 
title 38, United States Code, including--
            (1) <<NOTE: Assessment.>>  an assessment of the veteran-to-
        staff ratio for each such program; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>>  recommendations for such 
        action as the Secretary considers necessary to reduce the 
        veteran-to-staff ratio for each such program.

    Sec. 245.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this title may be used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
to enter into an agreement related to resolving a dispute or claim with 
an individual that would restrict in any way the individual from 
speaking to members of Congress or their staff on any topic not 
otherwise prohibited from disclosure by Federal law or required by 
Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or 
the conduct of foreign affairs.
    Sec. 246.  For <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  funds provided to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2019 and 2020, 
section 258 of Division A of Public Law 114-223 shall apply.

    Sec. 247.  None <<NOTE: Animals.>>  of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used to conduct research 
using canines unless: the scientific objectives of the study can only be 
met by research with canines; the study has been directly approved by 
the Secretary; and the study is consistent with the revised Department 
of Veterans Affairs canine research policy document released on December 
18, 2017:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  not later than 180 days 
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a detailed 
report outlining under what circumstances canine research may be needed 
if there are no other alternatives, how often it was used during that 
time period, and what protocols are in place to determine both the 
safety and efficacy of the research.

    Sec. 248.  For an additional amount for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, $2,000,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
infrastructure improvements, including new construction, and in addition 
to amounts otherwise made available in this Act for such purpose, of 
which:
            (1) $750,000,000 shall be available for seismic improvement 
        projects and seismic program management activities, including 
        projects that would otherwise be funded by the Construction, 
        Major Projects, the Construction, Minor Projects, Medical 
        Facilities, or National Cemetery Administration accounts;

[[Page 132 STAT. 2974]]

            (2) $300,000,000 shall be for ``Departmental 
        Administration--Construction, Major Projects'';
            (3) $800,000,000 shall be for ``Veterans Health 
        Administration--Medical Facilities'' to be used for non-
        recurring maintenance; and
            (4) $150,000,000 shall be for ``Departmental 
        Administration--Construction, Minor Projects'':

  Provided, That the additional amounts appropriated for the purposes of 
non-recurring maintenance and minor construction may be used to carry 
out critical life-safety projects identified in the Department's annual 
facility condition assessments; sustainment projects; modernization 
projects; infrastructure repair; renovations at existing Veterans Health 
Administration medical centers and outpatient clinics; and projects 
included in the Strategic Capital Investment Process plan:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this section for 
``Construction, Major Projects'' shall be available for previously 
authorized and partially funded major construction projects:  Provided 
further,  That notwithstanding the requirements of section 8104(a) of 
title 38, United States Code, amounts made available under this heading 
for seismic improvement projects and seismic program management 
activities shall be available for the completion of both new and 
existing projects of the Department:  Provided further, That the 
additional amounts appropriated under this section may not be obligated 
or expended until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and such 
Committees approve, a detailed expenditure plan, including project 
descriptions and costs, for any non-recurring maintenance, minor 
construction, major construction, or seismic improvement project being 
funded with the additional amounts made available in this administrative 
provision.
    Sec. 249. (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to deny 
an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access to any records, 
documents, or other materials available to the department or agency of 
the United States Government over which such Inspector General has 
responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), or to prevent or impede the access of such Inspector General to 
such records, documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
except a provision of law that expressly refers to such Inspector 
General and expressly limits the right of access of such Inspector 
General.
    (b) Timely Access.--A department or agency covered by this section 
shall provide its Inspector General access to all records, documents, 
and other materials in a timely manner.
    (c) Compliance.--Each Inspector General covered by this section 
shall ensure compliance with statutory limitations on disclosure 
relevant to the information provided by the department or agency over 
which that Inspector General has responsibilities under the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Report.--Each Inspector General covered by this section shall 
report to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives within 5 
calendar days of any failure by any department or agency covered by this 
section to comply with this section.
    Sec. 250. (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Plan Required.--Not later than 90 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Veterans

[[Page 132 STAT. 2975]]

Affairs shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a plan to 
reduce the chances that clinical mistakes by employees of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs will result in adverse events that require 
institutional or clinical disclosures and to prevent any unnecessary 
hardship for patients and families impacted by such adverse events.

    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) A description of a process for the timely identification 
        of individuals impacted by disclosures described in subsection 
        (a) and the process for contacting those individuals or their 
        next of kin.
            (2) A description of procedures for expediting any remedial 
        or follow-up care required for those individuals.
            (3) A detailed outline of proposed changes to the process of 
        the Department for clinical quality checks and oversight.
            (4) A communication plan to ensure all facilities of the 
        Department are made aware of any requirements updated pursuant 
        to the plan.
            (5) <<NOTE: Timeline.>>  A timeline detailing the 
        implementation of the plan.
            (6) An identification of the senior executive of the 
        Department responsible for ensuring compliance with the plan.
            (7) An identification of potential impacts of the plan on 
        timely diagnoses for patients.
            (8) An identification of the processes and procedures for 
        employees of the Department to make leadership at the facility 
        and the Department aware of adverse events that are concerning 
        and that result in disclosures and to ensure that the medical 
        impact on veterans of such disclosures is minimized.

    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Subcommittee 
        on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
        of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Subcommittee 
        on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
        of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.

    Sec. 251.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in a manner that would increase wait times for veterans who seek care at 
medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 252.  None <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act to the Veterans 
Health Administration may be used in fiscal year 2019 to convert any 
program which received specific purpose funds in fiscal year 2018 to a 
general purpose funded program unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
submits written notification of any such proposal to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least thirty days prior to 
any such action and an approval is issued by the Committees.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2976]]

                                TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $42,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $104,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $34,955,000:  Provided, That 
$2,580,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described and in accordance with the process and reporting 
procedures set forth under this heading in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                        Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $2,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $80,800,000, of 
which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2021. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2977]]

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for planning and design and construction at 
Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, $33,600,000, to remain available until expended, for planning 
and design and construction associated with the Southern Expansion 
project at Arlington National Cemetery.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $64,300,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading from funds available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust 
Fund, $22,000,000 shall be paid from the general fund of the Treasury to 
the Trust Fund.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 301.  Amounts deposited into the special account established 
under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall be available until 
expended to support activities at the Army National Military Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                     OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                       Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$192,250,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for projects 
outside of the United States:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $227,320,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2023, for projects outside of the United States:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2978]]

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'' 
$414,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for projects 
outside of the United States:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   Military Construction, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Defense-
Wide'', $87,050,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for 
projects outside of the United States:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 401.  Each <<NOTE: President. Designation.>>  amount designated 
in this Act by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available only 
if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
transmits such designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 402.  None <<NOTE: Lists.>>  of the funds appropriated for 
military construction projects outside the United States under this 
title may be obligated or expended for planning and design of any 
project associated with the European Deterrence Initiative until the 
Secretary of Defense develops and submits to the congressional defense 
committees, in a classified and unclassified format, a list of all of 
the military construction projects associated with the European 
Deterrence Initiative which the Secretary anticipates will be carried 
out during each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024.

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 503.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public service 
activities.
    Sec. 504.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies

[[Page 132 STAT. 2979]]

of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and 
Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, 
Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 507. (a) <<NOTE: Web posting. Determination.>>  Any agency 
receiving funds made available in this Act, shall, subject to 
subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web site of that agency any 
report required to be submitted by the Congress in this or any other 
Act, upon the determination by the head of the agency that it shall 
serve the national interest.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.

    (c) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  The head of the agency posting such 
report shall do so only after such report has been made available to the 
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

    Sec. 508. (a) <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-class travel by an 
employee of the agency in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 
301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to execute a contract for goods or services, including construction 
services, where the contractor has not complied with Executive Order No. 
12989.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or 
for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with Presidential 
Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 512. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act may be 
used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United 
States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual detained 
at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the purposes 
of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the control of the 
Department of Defense.

[[Page 132 STAT. 2980]]

    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  An individual described in this 
subsection is any individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at 
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control of 
                the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction, Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019''.

    Approved September 21, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5895 (S. 2975):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 115-697 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 115-929 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 115-258 (Comm. on Appropriations) accompanying 
S. 2975.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 164 (2018):
            June 7, 8, considered and passed House.
            June 18-21, 25, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 12, Senate agreed to conference report.
            Sept. 13, House agreed to conference report.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2018):
            Sept. 21, Presidential remarks and statement.

                                  <all>