[115th Congress Public Law 85]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 131 STAT. 1274]]

Public Law 115-85
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To ensure the effective processing of mail by Federal agencies, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 21, 2017 -  [H.R. 194]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Federal Agency 
Mail Management Act of 2017. 44 USC 101 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Agency Mail Management Act of 
2017''.
SEC. 2. RECORD MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 9 of the Presidential and Federal Records 
Act Amendments of 2014 (44 U.S.C. 101 note) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: 44 USC 2902 note.>>  in subsection (a), by 
        amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) in paragraph (7), by striking `the Administrator or 
        the Archivist' and inserting `the Archivist or the 
        Administrator'.'';
            (2) <<NOTE: 44 USC 2904 note.>>  in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:

    `` `(a) The Archivist shall provide guidance and assistance to 
Federal agencies with respect to ensuring--
            `` `(1) economical and effective records management;
            `` `(2) adequate and proper documentation of the policies 
        and transactions of the Federal Government; and
            `` `(3) proper records disposition.';'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1), the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) in subsection (b), by striking `effective records 
        management by such agencies' and inserting `effective processing 
        of mail by Federal agencies';'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking `` 
                      `subsections (a) and (b)' '' and inserting `` 
                      `subsection (a)' ''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; 
                      and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                    (E) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by 
                striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
                and
                    (F) by inserting at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(5) by inserting at the end the following new subsection:

[[Page 131 STAT. 1275]]

    `` `(e) The Administrator, in carrying out subsection (b), shall 
have the responsibility to promote economy and efficiency in the 
selection and utilization of space, staff, equipment, and supplies for 
processing mail at Federal facilities.'.'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by inserting at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) by inserting at the end the following new subsection:

    `` `(c) <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions. 44 USC 101 prec.>>  The 
Administrator (or the Administrator's designee) may inspect the mail 
processing practices and programs of any Federal agency for the purpose 
of rendering recommendations for the improvement of mail processing 
practices and programs. Officers and employees of such agencies shall 
cooperate fully in such inspections of mail processing practices and 
programs.'.'';
            (4) <<NOTE: 44 USC 2901 note. 44 USC 3102 note. 44 USC 2902 
        note.>>  by striking subsection (f); and
            (5) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the Presidential and Federal Records Act 
Amendments of 2014 (Public Law 113-187).

    Approved November 21, 2017.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 194:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-66 (Comm. on Oversight and Government Reform).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 163 (2017):
            May 17, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 8, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>