[115th Congress Public Law 320]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 132 STAT. 4437]]

Public Law 115-320
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend the Public Health Service Act to distribute maternity care 
health professionals to health professional shortage areas identified as 
      in need of maternity care health services. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 
                          2018 -  [H.R. 315]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Improving Access 
to Maternity Care Act. 42 USC 201 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Access to Maternity Care 
Act''.
SEC. 2. MATERNITY CARE HEALTH PROFESSIONAL TARGET AREAS.

    Section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254e) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the 
Health Resources and Services Administration, shall identify, based on 
the data collected under paragraph (3), maternity care health 
professional target areas that satisfy the criteria described in 
paragraph (2) for purposes of, in connection with receipt of assistance 
under this title, assigning to such identified areas maternity care 
health professionals who, without application of this subsection, would 
otherwise be eligible for such assistance. The Secretary shall 
distribute maternity care health professionals within health 
professional shortage areas using the maternity care health professional 
target areas so identified.
    ``(2) <<NOTE: Criteria.>> For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall establish criteria for maternity care health 
professional target areas that identify geographic areas within health 
professional shortage areas that have a shortage of maternity care 
health professionals.

    ``(3) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> For purposes of this 
subsection, the Secretary shall collect and publish in the Federal 
Register data comparing the availability and need of maternity care 
health services in health professional shortage areas and in areas 
within such health professional shortage areas.

    ``(4) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall seek input 
from relevant provider organizations, including medical societies, 
organizations representing medical facilities, and other organizations 
with expertise in maternity care.
    ``(5) <<NOTE: Definition.>> For purposes of this subsection, the 
term `full scope maternity care health services' includes during labor 
care, birthing, prenatal care, and postpartum care.

    ``(6) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as--
            ``(A) requiring the identification of a maternity care 
        health professional target area in an area not otherwise already 
        designated as a health professional shortage area; or

[[Page 132 STAT. 4438]]

            ``(B) affecting the types of health professionals, without 
        application of this subsection, otherwise eligible for 
        assistance, including a loan repayment or scholarship, pursuant 
        to the application of this section.''.

    Approved December 17, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 315:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 163 (2017):
                                    Jan. 9, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 164 (2018):
                                    Dec. 6, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>