[115th Congress Public Law 124]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 132 STAT. 314]]

Public Law 115-124
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
   ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Feb. 9, 
                         2018 -  [H.R. 1301]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Continuing 
Appropriations Amendments Act, 2018. 131 Stat. 1139, 1280, 2044; Ante, 
pp. 29, 120.>> 

    Sec. 101.  The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 (division D of 
Public Law 115-56) is further amended by inserting after section 165 the 
following new section:
    ``Sec. 166. (a) Employees furloughed as a result of any lapse in 
appropriations which begins on or about February 9, 2018, shall be 
compensated at their standard rate of compensation, for the period of 
such lapse in appropriations, as soon as practicable after such lapse in 
appropriations ends.
    ``(b) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, 
`employee' means:
            ``(1) a Federal employee;
            ``(2) an employee of the District of Columbia Courts;
            ``(3) an employee of the Public Defender Service for the 
        District of Columbia; or
            ``(4) a District of Columbia Government employee.

    ``(c) All obligations incurred in anticipation of the appropriations 
made and authority granted by this division for the purposes of 
maintaining the essential level of activity to protect life and property 
and bringing about orderly termination of Government functions, and for 
purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby ratified and 
approved if otherwise in accord with the provisions of this division.''.
    Sec. 102.  For <<NOTE: Time period.>>  the purposes of division D of 
Public Law 115-56, the time covered by such division shall be considered 
to include the period which began on or about February 9, 2018, during 
which there occurred a lapse in appropriations.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Amendments 
Act, 2018''.

    Approved February 9, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1301:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 163 (2017):
                                    Mar. 8, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 164 (2018):
                                    Feb. 8, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended. House concurred 
                                        in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>