[115th Congress Public Law 423]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 5453]]

 NATIONAL INTEGRATED DROUGHT INFORMATION SYSTEM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 
                                  2018

[[Page 132 STAT. 5454]]

Public Law 115-423
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the National Integrated Drought Information System, and 
        for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 7, 2019 -  [S. 2200]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: National 
Integrated Drought Information System Reauthorization Act of 2018. 15 
USC 8501 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Integrated Drought 
Information System Reauthorization Act of 2018''.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL INTEGRATED DROUGHT INFORMATION SYSTEM PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 3 of the National Integrated Drought 
Information System Act of 2006 (15 U.S.C. 313d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``in order to 
                make usable, reliable, and timely forecasts of drought, 
                including'' and inserting ``, including precipitation, 
                soil moisture, and evaporative demand, in order to make 
                usable, reliable, and timely forecasts of drought and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``watershed,'' 
                after ``regional,'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4)--
                          (i) by inserting ``, through interagency 
                      agreements'' after ``integrate''; and
                          (ii) by inserting ``information'' after 
                      ``warning'';
                    (D) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
            ``(5) utilize existing forecasting and assessment programs 
        and partnerships, including forecast communication coordinators 
        and cooperative institutes, and improvements in seasonal 
        precipitation and temperature, subseasonal precipitation and 
        temperature, and low flow water prediction; and''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``the 
                prediction,'' after ``relating to'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as 
        subsections (d) through (f), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

    ``(c) Partnerships.--The National Integrated Drought Information 
System may--
            ``(1) engage with the private sector to improve drought 
        monitoring, forecast, and communication if the Under Secretary 
        determines the partnership is appropriate, cost-effective, and 
        beneficial to the public and decisionmakers described in 
        subsection (b)(2)(A);

[[Page 132 STAT. 5455]]

            ``(2) facilitate the development of 1 or more academic 
        cooperative partnerships to assist with National Integrated 
        Drought Information System functions; and
            ``(3) utilize and support, as appropriate, monitoring by 
        citizen scientists, including by developing best practices to 
        facilitate maximum data integration.'';
            (4) in subsection (d), as redesignated, by inserting ``and 
        sustainment'' after ``development''; and
            (5) by striking subsection (f), as redesignated, and 
        inserting the following:

    ``(f) <<NOTE: Deadline. Strategy.>>  Soil Moisture.--Not later than 
1 year after the date of enactment of the National Integrated Drought 
Information System Reauthorization Act of 2018, the Under Secretary, 
acting through the National Integrated Drought Information System, shall 
develop a strategy for a national coordinated soil moisture monitoring 
network.''.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 4 of the National 
Integrated Drought Information System Act of 2006 (15 U.S.C. 313d note) 
is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act--
            ``(1) $13,500,000 for fiscal year 2019;
            ``(2) $13,750,000 for fiscal year 2020;
            ``(3) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
            ``(4) $14,250,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
            ``(5) $14,500,000 for fiscal year 2023.''.
SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION OF TITLE II OF THE WEATHER RESEARCH AND 
                    FORECASTING INNOVATION ACT OF 2017.

    (a) Reauthorization of Title II of the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017.--Section 1762 of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (15 U.S.C. 8521) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (j) to read as follows:

    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out the activities under this section--
            ``(1) $26,500,000 for fiscal year 2019;
            ``(2) $27,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
            ``(3) $27,500,000 for fiscal year 2021;
            ``(4) $28,000,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
            ``(5) $28,500,000 for fiscal year 2023.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(k) Derivation of Funds.--Amounts made available to carry out this 
section shall be derived from amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the National Weather Service.''.
    (b) United States Weather Research and Forecasting Improvement.--
Section 110 of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 
2017 (15 U.S.C. 8519) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research to carry out this title--
            ``(1) $136,516,000 for fiscal year 2019, of which--
                    ``(A) $85,758,000 is authorized for weather 
                laboratories and cooperative institutes;

[[Page 132 STAT. 5456]]

                    ``(B) $30,758,000 is authorized for weather and air 
                chemistry research programs; and
                    ``(C) $20,000,000 is authorized for the joint 
                technology transfer initiative described in section 
                102(b)(4);
            ``(2) $148,154,000 for fiscal year 2020, of which--
                    ``(A) $87,258,000 is authorized for weather 
                laboratories and cooperative institutes;
                    ``(B) $40,896,000 is authorized for weather and air 
                chemistry research programs; and
                    ``(C) $20,000,000 is authorized for the joint 
                technology transfer initiative described in section 
                102(b)(4);
            ``(3) $150,154,000 for fiscal year 2021, of which--
                    ``(A) $88,758,000 is authorized for weather 
                laboratories and cooperative institutes;
                    ``(B) $41,396,000 is authorized for weather and air 
                chemistry research programs; and
                    ``(C) $20,000,000 is authorized for the joint 
                technology transfer initiative described in section 
                102(b)(4);
            ``(4) $152,154,000 for fiscal year 2022, of which--
                    ``(A) $90,258,000 is authorized for weather 
                laboratories and cooperative institutes;
                    ``(B) $41,896,000 is authorized for weather and air 
                chemistry research programs; and
                    ``(C) $20,000,000 is authorized for the joint 
                technology transfer initiative described in section 
                102(b)(4); and
            ``(5) $154,154,000 for fiscal year 2023, of which--
                    ``(A) $91,758,000 is authorized for weather 
                laboratories and cooperative institutes;
                    ``(B) $42,396,000 is authorized for weather and air 
                chemistry research programs; and
                    ``(C) $20,000,000 is authorized for the joint 
                technology transfer initiative described in section 
                102(b)(4).

    ``(b) Limitation.--No additional funds are authorized to carry out 
this title and the amendments made by this title.''.
SEC. 4. EARTH PREDICTION INNOVATION CENTER.

    (a) Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation.--Section 102(b) of 
the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 
8512(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Advancing weather modeling skill, reclaiming and 
        maintaining international leadership in the area of numerical 
        weather prediction, and improving the transition of research 
        into operations by--
                    ``(A) leveraging the weather enterprise to provide 
                expertise on removing barriers to improving numerical 
                weather prediction;
                    ``(B) enabling scientists and engineers to 
                effectively collaborate in areas important for improving 
                operational global numerical weather prediction skill, 
                including model development, data assimilation 
                techniques, systems architecture integration, and 
                computational efficiencies;
                    ``(C) strengthening the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration's ability to undertake 
                research projects in pursuit of substantial advancements 
                in weather forecast skill;

[[Page 132 STAT. 5457]]

                    ``(D) utilizing and leverage existing resources 
                across the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration enterprise; and
                    ``(E) creating a community global weather research 
                modeling system that--
                          ``(i) is accessible by the public;
                          ``(ii) meets basic end-user requirements for 
                      running on public computers and networks located 
                      outside of secure National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                      Administration information and technology systems; 
                      and
                          ``(iii) utilizes, whenever appropriate and 
                      cost-effective, innovative strategies and methods, 
                      including cloud-based computing capabilities, for 
                      hosting and management of part or all of the 
                      system described in this subsection.''.

    (b) United States Weather Research Program.--Section 108(a) of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Authorization Act of 
1992 (15 U.S.C. 8520(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (10), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semi-colon;
            (2) in paragraph (11), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) carry out the activities of the Earth Prediction 
        Innovation Center as described in section 102(b)(2) of the 
        Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 
        U.S.C. 8512(b)(2)).''.
SEC. 5. COMPUTING RESOURCES PRIORITIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 108 of the Weather Research and Forecasting 
Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8518) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 108. COMPUTING RESOURCE EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT AND ANNUAL 
                        REPORT.

    ``(a) <<NOTE: Assessments. Contracts.>>  Computing Resources.--
            ``(1) In general.--In acquiring computing capabilities, 
        including high performance computing technologies and 
        supercomputing technologies, that enable the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration to meet its mission requirements, 
        the Under Secretary shall, when appropriate and cost-effective, 
        assess and prioritize options for entering into multi-year lease 
        agreements for computing capabilities over options for 
        purchasing computing hardware outright.
            ``(2) Acquisition.--In carrying out the requirements of 
        paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall structure multi-year 
        lease agreements in such a manner that the expiration of the 
        lease is set for a date on or around--
                    ``(A) the expected degradation point of the 
                computing resources; or
                    ``(B) the point at which significantly increased 
                computing capabilities are expected to be available for 
                lease.
            ``(3) Pilot programs.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In order to more efficiently and 
                effectively meet the mission requirements of the 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
                Under Secretary may create 1 or more pilot programs for 
                assessing

[[Page 132 STAT. 5458]]

                new or innovative information and technology 
                capabilities and services.
                    ``(B) Program requirements.--Any program created 
                under paragraph (3) shall assess only those capabilities 
                and services that--
                          ``(i) meet or exceed the standards and 
                      requirements of the National Oceanic and 
                      Atmospheric Administration, including for 
                      processing speed, cybersecurity, and overall 
                      reliability; or
                          ``(ii) meet or exceed, or are expected to meet 
                      or exceed, the performance of similar, in-house 
                      information and technology capabilities and 
                      services that are owned and operated by the 
                      National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                      prior to the establishment of the pilot program.
                    ``(C) Authorization of appropriations.--There is 
                authorized to be appropriated, out of funds appropriated 
                to the National Environmental Satellite, Data, and 
                Information Service, to carry out this paragraph 
                $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, $10,000,000 for fiscal 
                year 2020, and $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 
                through 2023, to remain available until expended.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Coordination. Public information.>>  Reports.--Not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the National Integrated 
Drought Information System Reauthorization Act of 2018, and triennially 
thereafter until the date that is 6 years after the date on which the 
first report is submitted, the Under Secretary, acting through the Chief 
Information Officer of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration and in coordination with the Assistant Administrator for 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the Director of the National 
Weather Service, shall produce and make publicly available a report that 
explains how the Under Secretary intends--
            ``(1) to continually support upgrades to pursue the fastest, 
        most powerful, and cost-effective high performance computing 
        technologies in support of its weather prediction mission;
            ``(2) to ensure a balance between the research to operations 
        requirements to develop the next generation of regional and 
        global models as well as highly reliable operational models;
            ``(3) to take advantage of advanced development concepts to, 
        as appropriate, make next generation weather prediction models 
        available in beta-test mode to operational forecasters, the 
        United States weather industry, and partners in academic and 
        Government research;
            ``(4) to use existing computing resources to improve 
        advanced research and operational weather prediction;
            ``(5) to utilize non-Federal contracts to obtain the 
        necessary expertise for advanced weather computing, if 
        appropriate;
            ``(6) to utilize cloud computing; and
            ``(7) to create a long-term strategy to transition the 
        programming language of weather model code to current and 
        broadly-used coding language.''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-25; 131 Stat. 91) is 
amended by striking the item relating to section 108 and inserting the 
following:

``Sec. 108. Computing resource efficiency improvement and annual 
           report.''.

[[Page 132 STAT. 5459]]

SEC. 6. SATELLITE ARCHITECTURE PLANNING.

    Section 301 of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act 
of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8531) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Next Generation Satellite Architecture.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Analysis.>>  In general.--The Under Secretary 
        shall analyze, test, and plan the procurement of future data 
        sources and satellite architectures, including respective ground 
        system elements, identified in the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration's Satellite Observing System 
        Architecture Study that--
                    ``(A) lower the cost of observations used to meet 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's 
                mission requirements;
                    ``(B) disaggregate current satellite systems, where 
                appropriate;
                    ``(C) include new, value-adding technological 
                advancements; and
                    ``(D) improve weather forecasting and predictions.
            ``(2) Quantitative assessments and partnership authority.--
        In meeting the requirements described in paragraph (1), the 
        Under Secretary--
                    ``(A) may partner with the commercial and academic 
                sectors, non-governmental and not-for-profit 
                organizations, and other Federal agencies; and
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Analyses.>>  shall, consistent with 
                section 107 of this Act, undertake quantitative 
                assessments for objective analyses, as the Under 
                Secretary considers appropriate, to evaluate relative 
                value and benefits of future data sources and satellite 
                architectures described in paragraph (1).

    ``(d) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Additional Forms of Transaction 
Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), in order to 
        enhance the effectiveness of data and satellite systems used by 
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to meet its 
        missions, the Under Secretary may enter into and perform such 
        transaction agreements on such terms as the Under Secretary 
        considers appropriate to carry out basic, applied, and advanced 
        research projects to meet the objectives described in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (D) subsection (c)(1).
            ``(2) Method and scope.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A transaction agreement under 
                paragraph (1) shall be limited to research and 
                development activities.
                    ``(B) Permissible uses.--A transaction agreement 
                under paragraph (1) may be used--
                          ``(i) for the construction, use, operation, or 
                      procurement of new, improved, innovative, or 
                      value-adding satellites, instrumentation, ground 
                      stations, and data;
                          ``(ii) to make determinations on how to best 
                      use existing or planned data, systems, and assets 
                      of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                      Administration; and
                          ``(iii) only when the objectives of the 
                      National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                      cannot be met using a cooperative research and 
                      development agreement, grants procurement 
                      contract, or cooperative agreement.

[[Page 132 STAT. 5460]]

            ``(3) Termination of effectiveness.--The authority provided 
        in this subsection terminates effective September 30, 2023.

    ``(e) Transparency <<NOTE: Deadline. Public information. Web 
posting. Estimate.>> .--Not later than 60 days after the date that a 
transaction agreement is made under subsection (d), the Under Secretary 
shall make publicly available, in a searchable format, on the website of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration all uses of the 
authority under subsection (d), including an estimate of committed 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration resources and the 
expected benefits to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
objectives for the transaction agreement, with appropriate redactions 
for proprietary, sensitive, or classified information.

    ``(f) Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after September 30 
        of each fiscal year through September 30, 2023, the Under 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, 
        Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report 
        on the use of additional transaction authority by the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration during the previous 
        fiscal year.
            ``(2) Contents.--Each report shall include--
                    ``(A) for each transaction agreement in effect 
                during the fiscal year covered by the report--
                          ``(i) an indication of whether the transaction 
                      agreement is a reimbursable, non-reimbursable, or 
                      funded agreement;
                          ``(ii) a description of--
                                    ``(I) the subject and terms;
                                    ``(II) the parties;
                                    ``(III) the responsible National 
                                Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                                line office;
                                    ``(IV) the value;
                                    ``(V) the extent of the cost sharing 
                                among Federal Government and non-Federal 
                                sources;
                                    ``(VI) the duration or schedule; and
                                    ``(VII) all milestones;
                          ``(iii) an indication of whether the 
                      transaction agreement was renewed during the 
                      previous fiscal year;
                          ``(iv) the technology areas in which research 
                      projects were conducted under that agreement;
                          ``(v) the extent to which the use of that 
                      agreement--
                                    ``(I) has contributed to a 
                                broadening of the technology and 
                                industrial base available for meeting 
                                National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                                Administration needs; and
                                    ``(II) has fostered within the 
                                technology and industrial base new 
                                relationships and practices that support 
                                the United States; and
                          ``(vi) the total value received by the Federal 
                      Government under that agreement for that fiscal 
                      year; and

[[Page 132 STAT. 5461]]

                    ``(B) <<NOTE: List.>>  a list of all anticipated 
                reimbursable, non-reimbursable, and funded transaction 
                agreements for the upcoming fiscal year.

    ``(g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed as limiting the authority of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration to use cooperative research and development 
agreements, grants, procurement contracts, or cooperative agreements.''.
SEC. 7. INTEGRATION OF OCEAN AND COASTAL DATA FROM THE INTEGRATED 
                    OCEAN OBSERVING SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Section 301(a)(2) of the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8531(a)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) support increasing use of autonomous, mobile 
                surface, sub-surface, and submarine vehicle ocean and 
                fresh water sensor systems and the infrastructure 
                necessary to share and analyze these data in real-time 
                and feed them into predictive early warning systems.''.

    (b) Commercial Weather Data; Authorization of Appropriations.--
Section 302(c)(3) of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act 
of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8532(c)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``2017 through 2020'' and inserting ``2019 
        through 2023''; and
            (2) by inserting ``the'' before ``National''.
SEC. 8. <<NOTE: 15 USC 8550.>>  IMPROVEMENTS TO COOPERATIVE 
                    OBSERVER PROGRAM OF NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and 
Atmosphere, acting through the National Weather Service, shall improve 
the Cooperative Observer Program by--
            (1) providing support to--
                    (A) State-coordinated programs relating to the 
                Program; and
                    (B) States and regions where observations provided 
                through the Program are scarce;
            (2) working with State weather service headquarters to 
        increase participation in the Program and to add stations in 
        States and regions described in paragraph (1)(B);
            (3) where feasible, ensuring that data streams from stations 
        that have been contributing data to the Program for more than 50 
        years are maintained and continually staffed by volunteers;
            (4) prioritizing the recruitment of new volunteers for the 
        Program;
            (5) ensuring that opportunities exist for automated 
        reporting to lessen the burden on volunteers to collect and 
        report data by hand; and
            (6) ensuring that integrated reporting is available for 
        qualitative observations that cannot be automated, such as 
        drought conditions, snow observations, and hazardous weather 
        events, to ensure that volunteers in the Program can report and 
        upload observations quickly and easily.

[[Page 132 STAT. 5462]]

    (b) Coordination With States and Regions <<NOTE: Time period.>> .--
Not less frequently than every 180 days, the National Weather Service 
shall coordinate with State and regional offices with respect to the 
status of Cooperative Observer Program stations.

    (c) Coordination With Federal Agencies.--The National Weather 
Service shall coordinate with other Federal agencies, including the 
Forest Service, the Department of Agriculture, and the United States 
Geological Survey, to leverage opportunities to grow the Cooperative 
Observer Program network and to more effectively use existing 
infrastructure, weather stations, and staff of the Program.
SEC. 9. <<NOTE: Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and 
                    Control Amendments Act of 2017.>>  HARMFUL 
                    ALGAL BLOOM AND HYPOXIA RESEARCH AND CONTROL.

    (a) <<NOTE: 33 USC 4001 note.>>  Short Title.--This section may be 
cited as the ``Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control 
Amendments Act of 2017''.

    (b) References to the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and 
Control Act of 1998.--Except as otherwise expressly provided, wherever 
in this section an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an 
amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference 
shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of the 
Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 (33 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.).
    (c) Inter-Agency Task Force.--Section 603(a) (33 U.S.C. 4001(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:
            ``(13) the Army Corps of Engineers; and''.

    (d) Scientific Assessments of Freshwater Harmful Algal Blooms.--
Section 603 (33 U.S.C. 4001) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (f);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (g), (h), (i), and (j) as 
        subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
            (3) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:

    ``(g) Scientific Assessments of Marine and Freshwater Harmful Algal 
Blooms <<NOTE: Time period.>> .--Not less than once every 5 years the 
Task Force shall complete and submit to Congress a scientific assessment 
of harmful algal blooms in United States coastal waters and freshwater 
systems. Each assessment shall examine both marine and freshwater 
harmful algal blooms, including those in the Great Lakes and upper 
reaches of estuaries, those in freshwater lakes and rivers, and those 
that originate in freshwater lakes or rivers and migrate to coastal 
waters.''.

    (e) National Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Program.--
            (1) Program duties.--Section 603A(e) (33 U.S.C. 4002(e)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, including to 
                local and regional stakeholders through the 
                establishment and maintenance of a publicly accessible 
                Internet website that provides information as to Program 
                activities completed under this section'' after 
                ``Program'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--

[[Page 132 STAT. 5463]]

                          (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' 
                      and inserting a semicolon;
                          (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and'' 
                      after the semicolon at the end; and
                          (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) to accelerate the utilization of effective 
                methods of intervention and mitigation to reduce the 
                frequency, severity, and impacts of harmful algal bloom 
                and hypoxia events;'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and work 
                cooperatively with'' and inserting ``, and work 
                cooperatively to provide technical assistance to,''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (7)--
                          (i) by inserting ``and extension'' after 
                      ``existing education''; and
                          (ii) by inserting ``intervention,'' after 
                      ``awareness of the causes, impacts,''.
            (2) National oceanic and atmospheric administration 
        activities.--Section 603A(f) (33 U.S.C. 4002(f)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, which shall 
                include unmanned systems,'' after ``infrastructure'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in paragraph (6)(C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) use cost effective methods in carrying out this Act; 
        and
            ``(8) develop contingency plans for the long-term monitoring 
        of hypoxia.''.

    (f) Consultation Required.--Section 102 of the Harmful Algal Bloom 
and Hypoxia Amendments Act of 2004 (33 U.S.C. 4001a) is amended by 
striking ``the amendments made by this title'' and inserting ``the 
Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998''.
    (g) <<NOTE: 33 USC 4010.>>  Hypoxia or Harmful Algal Bloom of 
National Significance.--
            (1) Relief.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Assessment.>>  In general.--Upon a 
                determination under paragraph (2) that there is an event 
                of national significance, the appropriate Federal 
                official is authorized to make sums available to the 
                affected State or local government for the purposes of 
                assessing and mitigating the detrimental environmental, 
                economic, subsistence use, and public health effects of 
                the event of national significance.
                    (B) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost of 
                any activity carried out under this paragraph for the 
                purposes described in subparagraph (A) may not exceed 50 
                percent of the cost of that activity.
                    (C) Donations.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
                of law, an appropriate Federal official may accept 
                donations of funds, services, facilities, materials, or 
                equipment that the appropriate Federal official 
                considers necessary for the purposes described in 
                subparagraph (A). Any funds donated to an appropriate 
                Federal official under this paragraph may be expended 
                without further appropriation and without fiscal year 
                limitation.
            (2) Determinations.--

[[Page 132 STAT. 5464]]

                    (A) In general.--At the discretion of an appropriate 
                Federal official, or at the request of the Governor of 
                an affected State, an appropriate Federal official shall 
                determine whether a hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event 
                is an event of national significance.
                    (B) Considerations.--In making a determination under 
                subparagraph (A), the appropriate Federal official shall 
                consider the toxicity of the harmful algal bloom, the 
                severity of the hypoxia, its potential to spread, the 
                economic impact, the relative size in relation to the 
                past 5 occurrences of harmful algal blooms or hypoxia 
                events that occur on a recurrent or annual basis, and 
                the geographic scope, including the potential to affect 
                several municipalities, to affect more than 1 State, or 
                to cross an international boundary.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Appropriate federal official.--The term 
                ``appropriate Federal official'' means--
                          (i) in the case of a marine or coastal hypoxia 
                      or harmful algal bloom event, the Under Secretary 
                      of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere; and
                          (ii) in the case of a freshwater hypoxia or 
                      harmful algal bloom event, the Administrator of 
                      the Environmental Protection Agency.
                    (B) Event of national significance.--The term 
                ``event of national significance'' means a hypoxia or 
                harmful algal bloom event that has had or will likely 
                have a significant detrimental environmental, economic, 
                subsistence use, or public health impact on an affected 
                State.
                    (C) Hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event.--The term 
                ``hypoxia or harmful algal bloom event'' means the 
                occurrence of hypoxia or a harmful algal bloom as a 
                result of a natural, anthropogenic, or undetermined 
                cause.

    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 609(a) (33 U.S.C. 
4009(a)) is amended by inserting ``, and $20,500,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2019 through 2023'' before the period at the end.

    Approved January 7, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2200:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 115-256 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 164 (2018):
            Dec. 18, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 20, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>