[109th Congress Public Law 383]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ383.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 2678]]

Public Law 109-383
109th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2007, and 
     for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 2006 -  [H.J. Res. 102]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 109-289, division B) is 
further amended by striking the date specified in section 
106(3) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 2462.>> and inserting ``February 15, 2007''.

    Sec. 2. Section 102(c) of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (Public Law 109-289, division B) is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
1313.>> amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Activities under the `Chemical Demilitarization 
        Construction, Defense-Wide' account.''.

    Sec. 3. Section 114(b) of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (Public Law 109-289, division B) is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
1314.>> amended by striking ``and December 1, 2006,'' and inserting 
``December 1, 2006, January 1, 2007, February 1, 2007, and March 1, 
2007,''.

    Sec. 4. Section 125 of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (Public Law 109-289, division B) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1315.>> is 
amended by striking ``Partner Purchases'' and inserting ``Partnership 
Purchases and International Space Station/Multi-User System Support''.

    Sec. 5. Section 126 of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (Public Law 109-289, division B) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1315.>> is 
amended by inserting ``(1)'' after ``except that'', and by inserting 
before the period at the end the following: ``, and (2) amounts made 
available under section 101 for departments and agencies that have been 
apportioned pursuant to this section prior to November 17, 2006, may be 
at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate''.

    Sec. 6. Section 101 of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (Public Law 109-289, division B) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1311.>> is 
amended by striking ``as of October 1, 2006'' each place it appears in 
subsections (b) through (e) and inserting ``as of November 15, 2006''.

    Sec. 7. The Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 
109-289, division B) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1316.>> is amended by adding after 
section 132 the following new sections:

    ``Sec. 133. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (a) Section 44302(f)(1) of 
title 49, United States Code, shall be applied by substituting the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this division for `August 31, 2006, and 
may extend through December 31, 2006'.
    ``(b) Section 44303(b) of title 49, United States Code, shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
division for `December 31, 2006'.

    ``Sec. <<NOTE: Extension date.>> 134.  The authority provided by H. 
Res. 135 (109th Congress), as adopted on March 14, 2005, shall continue 
in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this division.

[[Page 120 STAT. 2679]]

    ``Sec. <<NOTE: Extension date.>> 135.  The rule referenced in 
section 126 of Public Law 109-54 shall continue in effect for the 2006-
2007 winter use season through the date specified in section 106(3) of 
this division.

    ``Sec. 136.  In addition to any other transfer authority of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, up to $683,970,000 of the funds made 
available to the Department by this division may be transferred to 
`Veterans Health Administration-Medical Services' during the period 
covered by this division.
    ``Sec. <<NOTE: Pay raise. Effective date.>> 137.  Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this division and notwithstanding section 
601(a)(2) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31), 
the percentage adjustment scheduled to take effect under such section 
for 2007 shall not take effect until February 16, 2007.''.

    Approved December 9, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 102:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            Dec. 8, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>