[109th Congress Public Law 55]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ055.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 565]]

Public Law 109-55
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
   ending September 30, 2006, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 2, 
                         2005 -  [H.R. 2985]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2006.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2006, and for other purposes, namely:

TITLE I--LEGISLATIVE <<NOTE: 2 USC 60a note.>> BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $20,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $40,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$40,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $40,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $10,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $10,000; President Pro 
Tempore emeritus, $15,000; Chairmen of the Majority and Minority 
Conference Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Policy Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; in 
all, $195,000.

     Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $147,120,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the following limitations:


                      office of the vice president


    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,181,000.


                   office of the president pro tempore


    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $582,000.

[[Page 119 STAT. 566]]

              office of the president pro tempore emeritus


    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore emeritus, $290,000.


              offices of the majority and minority leaders


    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $4,340,000.


               offices of the majority and minority whips


    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $2,644,000.


                       committee on appropriations


    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $13,758,000.


                          conference committees


    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,470,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,940,000.


  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority


    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $728,000.


                            policy committees


    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,524,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,048,000.


                         office of the chaplain


    For Office of the Chaplain, $354,000.


                         office of the secretary


    For Office of the Secretary, $20,866,000.


              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper


    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $56,700,000.


        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority


    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,584,000.


                agency contributions and related expenses


    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $37,105,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $5,437,000.

[[Page 119 STAT. 567]]

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,306,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                              of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $6,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $6,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $6,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $6,000; in all, $24,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate


                      inquiries and investigations


    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and Rescission 
Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 96th Congress, 
agreed to March 11, 1980, $119,637,000.


 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control


    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $520,000.


                         secretary of the senate


    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,980,000.


              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate


    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $142,000,000, which shall remain available until September 
30, 2010.


                           miscellaneous items


    For miscellaneous items, $17,000,000, of which up to $500,000 shall 
be made available for a pilot program for mailings of postal patron 
postcards by Senators for the purpose of providing notice of a town 
meeting by a Senator in a county (or equivalent unit of local 
government) at which the Senator will personally attend: Provided, That 
any amount allocated to a Senator for such mailing shall not exceed 50 
percent of the cost of the mailing and the remaining cost shall be paid 
by the Senator from other funds available to the Senator.


         senators' official personnel and office expense account


    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$350,000,000.

[[Page 119 STAT. 568]]

                           official mail costs


    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.


                        administrative provisions


    Sec. 1. <<NOTE: 2 USC 61-1 and note.>> Gross Rate of Compensation in 
Offices of Senators. Effective on and after October 1, 2005, each of the 
dollar amounts contained in the table under section 105(d)(1)(A) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) 
shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in that table, as adjusted by 
law and in effect on September 30, 2005, increased by an additional 
$50,000 each.

    Sec. 2. <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 61h-6 note.>> Consultants. With 
respect to fiscal year 2006, the first sentence of section 101(a) of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 61h-6(a)) shall be 
applied by substituting ``nine individual consultants'' for ``eight 
individual consultants''.

    Sec. 3. United States Senate Collection. Section 316 of Public Law 
101-302 (2 U.S.C. 2107) is amended in the first sentence of subsection 
(a) by striking ``2005'' and inserting ``2006''.
    Sec. 4. Senate Commission on Art. Section 3(c)(2) of Public Law 108-
83 (2 U.S.C. 2108(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``and for any purposes'' 
through the period and inserting ``for any purposes for which funds from 
the contingent fund of the Senate may be used under section 316(a) of 
Public Law 101-302 (2 U.S.C. 2107(a)), and for expenditures, not to 
exceed $10,000 in any fiscal year, for meals and refreshments in Capitol 
facilities in connection with official activities of the Commission or 
other authorized programs or activities.''.
    Sec. 5. Absences. Section 40 of the Revised Statutes (2 U.S.C. 39) 
is amended by--
            (1) striking ``Secretary of the Senate and the'';
            (2) striking ``, respectively, shall'' and inserting 
        ``shall'';
            (3) striking ``Senate or''; and
            (4) striking ``, respectively, unless'' and inserting ``, 
        unless''.

    Sec. 6. Modification of Certain Consultant Requirement. Section 
10(a)(5) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999 (2 U.S.C. 
72d) is amended by inserting ``, except that any approval (and related 
reporting requirement) shall not apply'' after ``May 14, 1975''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES


                          salaries and expenses


    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,100,907,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $19,844,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $2,788,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,089,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $2,928,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip,

[[Page 119 STAT. 569]]

$1,797,000, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; 
Office of the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,345,000, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; 
Speaker's Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $482,000; Republican 
Steering Committee, $906,000; Republican Conference, $1,548,000; 
Republican Policy Committee, $307,000; Democratic Steering and Policy 
Committee, $1,945,000; Democratic Caucus, $816,000; nine minority 
employees, $1,445,000; training and program development--majority, 
$290,000; training and program development--minority, $290,000; 
Cloakroom Personnel--majority, $434,000; and Cloakroom Personnel--
minority, $434,000.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $542,109,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $117,913,000: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2006.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$25,668,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2006.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $172,249,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $13,000, of which not 
more than $10,000 is for the Family Room, for official representation 
and reception expenses, $21,911,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent 
of Garages, and including not more than $3,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, $6,284,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, 
$121,471,000, of which $7,806,000 shall remain available until expended; 
for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
$3,991,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of Emergency 
Planning, Preparedness and Operations, $5,000,000, to remain available 
until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of General 
Counsel, $962,000;

[[Page 119 STAT. 570]]

for the Office of the Chaplain, $161,000; for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and 
$2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, $1,767,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, 
$2,453,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative 
Counsel of the House, $6,963,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $720,000; for other authorized 
employees, $161,000; and for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Historian, $405,000.

                         Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $223,124,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $4,179,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $410,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $214,422,000; supplies, materials, 
and other costs relating to the House portion of expenses for the 
Capitol Visitor Center, $3,410,000, to remain available until expended; 
and miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, 
repair and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary 
receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, 
$703,000.

                            Child Care Center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (2 
U.S.C. 2112), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--
Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational Allowances'' shall be 
available only for fiscal year 2006. Any amount remaining after all 
payments are made under such allowances for fiscal year 2006 shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, if there 
is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for 
reducing the Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the 
Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the House 
of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

[[Page 119 STAT. 571]]

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,276,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$8,781,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $725 per month each to four medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $725 per month to two assistants and $580 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,834,000 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $2,545,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $4,098,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than 58 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board is 
authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two additional 
individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more than 10 
additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the Capitol 
Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the first session of the 109th Congress, showing 
appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, 
hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, social security, professional liability

[[Page 119 STAT. 572]]

insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, $217,456,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation of 
instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $32,000,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for fiscal year 2006 shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland 
Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                        Administrative Provisions


                      (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 1001. Transfer Authority. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 
2006 for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the headings 
``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 1002. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1980.>> Mounted Horse Unit. (a) The United 
States Capitol Police may not operate a mounted horse unit during fiscal 
year 2006 or any succeeding fiscal year.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief of the Capitol Police shall transfer to 
the Chief of the United States Park Police the horses, equipment, and 
supplies of the Capitol Police mounted horse unit which remain in the 
possession of the Capitol Police as of such date.

    Sec. 1003. Ethics in Goverment Act. (a) Section 103(h)(1)(A)(i)(I) 
of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 
103(h)(1)(A)(i)(I)) is amended by inserting ``United States Capitol 
Police,'' after ``Architect of the Capitol,''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 5 USC app. 103 note.>> The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to reports filed under the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 for calendar year 2005 and each 
succeeding calendar year.

    Sec. 1004. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1909.>> Inspector General for the United 
States Capitol Police. (a) Establishment of Office.--There is 
established in the United States Capitol Police the Office of the 
Inspector General (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
``Office''), headed by the Inspector General of the United States 
Capitol Police (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Inspector 
General'').

    (b) Inspector General.--
            (1) Appointment.--The Inspector General shall be appointed 
        by, and under the general supervision of, the Capitol Police 
        Board. The appointment shall be made in consultation with the 
        Inspectors General of the Library of Congress, Government 
        Printing Office, and the Government Accountability

[[Page 119 STAT. 573]]

        Office. The Capitol Police Board shall appoint the Inspector 
        General without regard to political affiliation and solely on 
        the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, 
        auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public 
        administration, or investigations.
            (2) Term of service.--The Inspector General shall serve for 
        a term of 5 years, and an individual serving as Inspector 
        General may be reappointed for not more than 2 additional terms.
            (3) Removal.--The Inspector General may be removed from 
        office prior to the expiration of his term only by the unanimous 
        vote of all of the voting members of the Capitol Police Board, 
        and the Board shall communicate the reasons for any such removal 
        to the Committee on House Administration, the Senate Committee 
        on Rules and Administration and the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the House of Representatives and of the Senate.
            (4) Salary.--The Inspector General shall be paid at an 
        annual rate equal to $1,000 less than the annual rate of pay in 
        effect for the Chief of the Capitol Police.
            (5) Deadline.--The Capitol Police Board shall appoint the 
        first Inspector General under this section not later than 180 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (c) Duties.--
            (1) Applicability of duties of inspector general of 
        executive branch establishment.--The Inspector General shall 
        carry out the same duties and responsibilities with respect to 
        the United States Capitol Police as an Inspector General of an 
        establishment carries out with respect to an establishment under 
        section 4 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, (5 U.S.C. App. 
        4), under the same terms and conditions which apply under such 
        section.
            (2) Semiannual reports.--The Inspector General shall prepare 
        and submit semiannual reports summarizing the activities of the 
        Office in the same manner, and in accordance with the same 
        deadlines, terms, and conditions, as an Inspector General of an 
        establishment under section 5 (other than subsection (a)(13) 
        thereof) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, (5 U.S.C. App. 
        5). For purposes of applying section 5 of such Act to the 
        Inspector General, the Chief of the Capitol Police shall be 
        considered the head of the establishment. The Chief shall, 
        within 30 days of receipt of a report, report to the Capitol 
        Police Board, the Committee on House Administration, the Senate 
        Committee on Rules and Administration, and the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and of the Senate 
        consistent with section 5(b) of such Act.
            (3) Investigations of complaints of employees and members.--
                    (A) Authority.--The Inspector General may receive 
                and investigate complaints or information from an 
                employee or member of the Capitol Police concerning the 
                possible existence of an activity constituting a 
                violation of law, rules, or regulations, or 
                mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority, 
                or a substantial and specific danger to the public 
                health and safety, including complaints or information 
                the investigation of which is under the jurisdiction of 
                the Internal Affairs Division of

[[Page 119 STAT. 574]]

                the Capitol Police as of the date of the enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (B) Nondisclosure.--The Inspector General shall not, 
                after receipt of a complaint or information from an 
                employee or member, disclose the identity of the 
                employee or member without the consent of the employee 
                or member, unless required by law or the Inspector 
                General determines such disclosure is otherwise 
                unavoidable during the course of the investigation.
                    (C) Prohibiting retaliation.--An employee or member 
                of the Capitol Police who has authority to take, direct 
                others to take, recommend, or approve any personnel 
                action, shall not, with respect to such authority, take 
                or threaten to take any action against any employee or 
                member as a reprisal for making a complaint or 
                disclosing information to the Inspector General, unless 
                the complaint was made or the information disclosed with 
                the knowledge that it was false or with willful 
                disregard for its truth or falsity.
            (4) Independence in carrying out duties.--Neither the 
        Capitol Police Board, the Chief of the Capitol Police, nor any 
        other member or employee of the Capitol Police may prevent or 
        prohibit the Inspector General from carrying out any of the 
        duties or responsibilities assigned to the Inspector General 
        under this section.

    (d) Powers.--
            (1) In general.--The Inspector General may exercise the same 
        authorities with respect to the United States Capitol Police as 
        an Inspector General of an establishment may exercise with 
        respect to an establishment under section 6(a) of the Inspector 
        General Act of 1978, (5 U.S.C. App. 6(a)), other than paragraphs 
        (7) and (8) of such section.
            (2) Staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The Inspector General may appoint 
                and fix the pay of such personnel as the Inspector 
                General considers appropriate. Such personnel may be 
                appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, 
                United States Code, regarding appointments in the 
                competitive service, and may be paid without regard to 
                the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
                chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and 
                General Schedule pay rates, except that no personnel of 
                the Office (other than the Inspector General) may be 
                paid at an annual rate greater than $500 less than the 
                annual rate of pay of the Inspector General under 
                subsection (b)(4).
                    (B) Experts and consultants.--The Inspector General 
                may procure temporary and intermittent services under 
                section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates 
                not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
                basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
                section 5315 of such title.
                    (C) Independence in appointing staff.--No individual 
                may carry out any of the duties or responsibilities of 
                the Office unless the individual is appointed by the 
                Inspector General, or provides services procured by the 
                Inspector General, pursuant to this paragraph. Nothing 
                in this subparagraph may be construed to prohibit the

[[Page 119 STAT. 575]]

                Inspector General from entering into a contract or other 
                arrangement for the provision of services under this 
                section.
                    (D) Applicability of capitol police personnel 
                rules.--None of the regulations governing the 
                appointment and pay of employees of the Capitol Police 
                shall apply with respect to the appointment and 
                compensation of the personnel of the Office, except to 
                the extent agreed to by the Inspector General. Nothing 
                in the previous sentence may be construed to affect 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C).
            (3) Equipment and supplies.--The Chief of the Capitol Police 
        shall provide the Office with appropriate and adequate office 
        space, together with such equipment, supplies, and 
        communications facilities and services as determined by the 
        Inspector General to be necessary for the operation of the 
        Office, and shall provide necessary maintenance services for 
        such office space and the equipment and facilities located 
        therein.

    (e) Transfer of Functions.--
            (1) Transfer.--To the extent that any office or entity in 
        the Capitol Police prior to the appointment of the first 
        Inspector General under this section carried out any of the 
        duties and responsibilities assigned to the Inspector General 
        under this section, the functions of such office or entity shall 
        be transferred to the Office upon the appointment of the first 
        Inspector General under this section.
            (2) No reduction in pay or benefits.--The transfer of the 
        functions of an office or entity to the Office under paragraph 
        (1) may not result in a reduction in the pay or benefits of any 
        employee of the office or entity, except to the extent required 
        under subsection (d)(2)(A).

    (f) Effective Date.--This section shall be effective upon enactment 
of this Act.
    (g) Conforming Amendment.--Section 108(b)(2)(D) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2001, Public Law 106-554 (2 U.S.C. 
1903(b)(2)(D)) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) Prepare annual financial statements for the 
                Capitol Police, and such financial statements shall be 
                audited by the Inspector General of the Capitol Police 
                or by an independent public accountant, as determined by 
                the Inspector General.''.

    Sec. 1005. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1910.>> Report of Disbursements. (a) In 
General.--Not later than 60 days after the last day of each semiannual 
period, the Chief of the Capitol Police shall submit to Congress, with 
respect to that period, a detailed, itemized report of the disbursements 
for the operations of the United States Capitol Police.

    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the name of each person or entity who receives a payment 
        from the Capitol Police and the amount thereof;
            (2) a description of any service rendered to the Capitol 
        Police, together with service dates;
            (3) a statement of all amounts appropriated to, or received 
        or expended by, the Capitol Police and any unexpended balances 
        of such amounts for any open fiscal year; and
            (4) such additional information as may be required by 
        regulation of the Committee on House Administration of the

[[Page 119 STAT. 576]]

        House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate.

    (c) Printing.--Each report under this section shall be printed as a 
House document.
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to the semiannual periods of October 1 through March 
31 and April 1 through September 30 of each year, beginning with the 
semiannual period in which this section is enacted.

    Sec. 1006. Capitol Police and Transfer of Library of Congress 
Police. (a) Limitation On Certain Hiring Authority of Capitol Police.--
Section 1006(b)(3) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2004 
(Public Law 108-83; 117 Stat. 1023), as amended by section 1002 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005 (2 U.S.C. 1901 note; Public 
Law 108-447; 118 Stat. 3179), is further amended by adding after 
subparagraph (D), the following:
                    ``(E) Limitation for fiscal year 2006.--During 
                fiscal year 2006, the number of individuals hired under 
                this subsection may not exceed--
                          ``(i) the number of Library of Congress Police 
                      employees who separated from service or 
                      transferred to a position other than a Library of 
                      Congress Police employee position during fiscal 
                      year 2005 for whom a corresponding hire was not 
                      made under this subsection; and
                          ``(ii) the number of Library of Congress 
                      Police employees who separate from service or 
                      transfer to a position other than a Library of 
                      Congress Police employee position during fiscal 
                      year 2006.''.

    (b) Memorandum of Understanding.--The Memorandum of Understanding 
between the Library of Congress and the Capitol Police entered into on 
December 12, 2004, shall remain in effect through fiscal year 2006, 
subject to such modifications as may be made in accordance with the 
modification and dispute resolution provisions of the Memorandum of 
Understanding.
    Sec. 1007. (a) Waiving Repayment of Certain Overtime Compensation 
Paid Incorrectly.--Except as provided in subsection (b), any individual 
to whom overtime compensation was paid under section 1009 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-7; 117 Stat. 
359), in violation of the restrictions applicable to the payment of such 
compensation under section 1009(b) of such Act shall not be required to 
repay the compensation, but only to the extent the compensation was paid 
for services provided prior to June 15, 2005.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any 
officer or employee of the United States Capitol Police whose annual 
rate of pay is specified in statute and is not established under the 
schedule of rates of basic pay established and maintained by the Capitol 
Police Board.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE


                          salaries and expenses


    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $3,112,000, of which $780,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2007: Provided, That the Executive

[[Page 119 STAT. 577]]

Director of the Office of Compliance may, within the limits of available 
appropriations, dispose of surplus or obsolete personal property by 
interagency transfer, donation, or discarding: Provided further, That 
not more than $500 may be expended on the certification of the Executive 
Director of the Office of Compliance in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE


                          salaries and expenses


    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $3,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $35,450,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 1100. (a) Permitting Waiver of Claims For Overpayment of Pay 
and Allowances.--Section 5584(g) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (5);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (6) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (6) the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(7) the Congressional Budget Office.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 5 USC 5584 note.>> Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2006 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $76,812,000.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $23,352,000, of which $8,300,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2010.

[[Page 119 STAT. 578]]

                             Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $7,511,000.

                         Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$67,004,000, of which $15,745,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2010.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $59,616,000, of which $20,922,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2010.

                           Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $58,685,000, of which $1,600,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2010: Provided, That not more than $6,600,000 of the 
funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2006.

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$68,763,000, of which $42,500,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2010.

                  Capitol Police Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings and grounds of the United States Capitol Police, 
$14,902,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2010.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds,

[[Page 119 STAT. 579]]

and collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $7,633,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for construction of the National 
Garden: Provided further, That of the amount made available under this 
heading, the Architect may obligate and expend such sums as may be 
necessary for the maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden 
established under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect or a 
duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For an additional amount for the Capitol Visitor Center project, 
$41,900,000, to remain available until expended, and in addition, 
$2,300,000 for Capitol Visitor Center operation costs: Provided, That 
the Architect of the Capitol may not obligate any of the funds which are 
made available for the Capitol Visitor Center project without an 
obligation plan approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and House of Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1201. (a) Section 108 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 1849), is amended in subsection (b), by striking ``8 
positions'' and inserting ``9 positions''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 1849 note.>> The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to pay periods beginning on or 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 1202. (a) Section 905 of the 2002 Supplemental Appropriations 
Act for Further Recovery From and Response To Terrorist Attacks on the 
United States (2 U.S.C. 1819) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(d) In the case of a building or facility acquired through 
purchase pursuant to subsection (a), the Architect of the Capitol may 
enter into or assume a lease with another person for the use of any 
portion of the building or facility that the Architect of the Capitol 
determines is not required to be used to carry out the purposes of this 
section, subject to the approval of the entity which approved the 
acquisition of such building or facility under subsection (b).''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 1819 note.>> The amendments made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to leases entered into on or 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses


                     (including rescission of funds)


    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library

[[Page 119 STAT. 580]]

buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of 
uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the custody of the Library; 
operation and maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the 
Library; preparation and distribution of catalog records and other 
publications of the Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor 
vehicle; and expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by the Board, 
$395,754,000, of which not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from 
collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2006, and 
shall remain available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 
shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 2006 and shall 
remain available until expended for the development and maintenance of 
an international legal information database and activities related 
thereto: Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 
1902, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure 
in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $6,350,000: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $13,972,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the partial acquisition of books, periodicals, newspapers, 
and all other materials including subscriptions for bibliographic 
services for the Library, including $40,000 to be available solely for 
the purchase, when specifically approved by the Librarian, of special 
and unique materials for additions to the collections: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be 
expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for the 
Overseas Field Offices: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $5,860,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
digital collections and educational curricula program under section 1306 
of this Act: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$600,000 shall remain available until expended, and shall be transferred 
to the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission for carrying out the 
purposes of Public Law 106-173, of which $10,000 may be used for 
official representation and reception expenses of the Abraham Lincoln 
Bicentennial Commission: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $11,078,000 shall remain available until expended for 
partial support of the National Audio-Visual Conservation Center: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $250,000 shall 
be used to provide a grant to the Middle Eastern Text Initiative for 
translation and publishing of middle eastern text: Provided further, 
That no funds made available under this heading may be expended 
inconsistently with the provisions and intent of section 1006 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public Law 108-83), as 
amended, and the memorandum of understanding between the Library of 
Congress and the Capitol Police entered into on December 12, 2004: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $300,000 shall 
be available to the University of South Carolina for the Cooperative 
Preservation and Conservation project for the Movietone Newsreel 
collection: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$400,000 shall be available to the University of Mississippi American 
Music Archives: Provided further, That of the amounts made available 
under this heading

[[Page 119 STAT. 581]]

in chapter 9 of division A of the Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001 
(Public Law 106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A-194), $6,858,000 are rescinded.

                            Copyright Office


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $58,601,000, of 
which not more than $30,481,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2006 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any funds 
derived from collections under such section, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $5,465,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2006 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 
802(h), 1005, and 1316 of such title: Provided further, That the total 
amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $35,946,000: Provided further, That not more 
than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the 
maintenance of an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright 
Office of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals 
of developing countries in intellectual property laws and policies: 
Provided further, That not more than $4,250 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute and for copyright delegations, 
visitors, and seminars: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United States Code, any amounts made 
available under this heading which are attributable to royalty fees and 
payments received by the Copyright Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, 
and chapter 10 of such title may be used for the costs incurred in the 
administration of the Copyright Royalty Judges program.

                     Congressional Research Service


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$100,916,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped


                          salaries and expenses


    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $54,449,000,

[[Page 119 STAT. 582]]

of which $16,231,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $400,000 shall remain available 
until expended to reimburse the National Federation of the Blind for 
costs incurred in the operation of its ``NEWSLINE'' program.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1301. Incentive Awards Program. Of the amounts appropriated to 
the Library of Congress in this Act, not more than $5,000 may be 
expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for the 
incentive awards program.
    Sec. 1302. Reimbursable and Revolving Fund Activities. (a) In 
General.--For fiscal year 2006, the obligational authority of the 
Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) may 
not exceed $109,943,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2006, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``LIBRARY OF CONGRESS'' under the subheading ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK Program and the Federal 
Research Program established under section 103 of the Library of 
Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-481; 
2 U.S.C. 182c): Provided, That the total amount of such transfers may 
not exceed $1,900,000: Provided further, That the appropriate revolving 
fund account shall reimburse the Library for any amounts transferred to 
it before the period of availability of the Library appropriation 
expires.
    Sec. 1303. National Digital Information Infrastructure and 
Preservation Program. The Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001 
(enacted into law by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106-554, 114 Stat. 
2763A-194) is amended in the first proviso under the subheading 
``Salaries and Expenses'' under the heading ``LIBRARY OF CONGRESS'' in 
chapter 9 of division A by adding at the end ``, except that an amount 
not to exceed $10,000,000 of such additional $75,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended and may be used for competitive grants to State 
governmental entities, without regard to any matching contribution 
requirement, to work cooperatively to collect and preserve at-risk 
digital State and local government information''.
    Sec. 1304. United States Diplomatic Facilities. Funds made available 
for the Library of Congress under this Act are available for transfer to 
the Department of State as remittance for a fee charged by the 
Department for fiscal year 2006 for the maintenance, upgrade, or 
construction of United States diplomatic facilities only to the extent 
that the amount of the fee so charged is equal to or less than the 
unreimbursed value of the services provided during fiscal year 2006 to 
the Library of Congress on State Department diplomatic facilities.
    Sec. 1305. Parliamentary Development. (a) Section 208 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-53; 109 
Stat. 532), is hereby repealed.

[[Page 119 STAT. 583]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendment made by this section 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act or October 1, 
2005, whichever occurs earlier.

    Sec. 1306. <<NOTE: Library of Congress Digital Collections and 
Educational Curricula Act of 2005. 2 USC 184.>> Incorporation of Digital 
Collections Into Educational Curricula. (a) Short Title.--This section 
may be cited as the ``Library of Congress Digital Collections and 
Educational Curricula Act of 2005''.

    (b) Program.--The Librarian of Congress shall administer a program 
to teach educators and librarians how to incorporate the digital 
collections of the Library of Congress into educational curricula.
    (c) Educational Consortium.--In administering the program under this 
section, the Librarian of Congress may--
            (1) establish an educational consortium to support the 
        program; and
            (2) make funds appropriated for the program available to 
        consortium members, educational institutions, and libraries.

    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for 
fiscal year 2006 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 1307. <<NOTE: Library of Congress Inspector General Act of 
2005. 2 USC 185.>> Inspector General of the Library of Congress. (a) 
Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Library of Congress 
Inspector General Act of 2005''.

    (b) Office of Inspector General.--There is an Office of Inspector 
General within the Library of Congress which is an independent objective 
office to--
            (1) conduct and supervise audits and investigations 
        (excluding incidents involving violence and personal property) 
        relating to the Library of Congress;
            (2) provide leadership and coordination and recommend 
        policies to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness; and
            (3) provide a means of keeping the Librarian of Congress and 
        the Congress fully and currently informed about problems and 
        deficiencies relating to the administration and operations of 
        the Library of Congress.

    (c) Appointment of Inspector General; Supervision; Removal.--
            (1) Appointment and supervision.--
                    (A) In general.--There shall be at the head of the 
                Office of Inspector General, an Inspector General who 
                shall be appointed by the Librarian of Congress without 
                regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis 
                of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, 
                auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, 
                public administration, or investigations. The Inspector 
                General shall report to, and be under the general 
                supervision of, the Librarian of Congress.
                    (B) Audits, investigations, and reports.--The 
                Librarian of Congress shall have no authority to prevent 
                or prohibit the Inspector General from--
                          (i) initiating, carrying out, or completing 
                      any audit or investigation;
                          (ii) issuing any subpoena during the course of 
                      any audit or investigation; or
                          (iii) issuing any report.
            (2) Removal.--The Inspector General may be removed from 
        office by the Librarian of Congress. The Librarian of Congress

[[Page 119 STAT. 584]]

        shall, promptly upon such removal, communicate in writing the 
        reasons for any such removal to each House of the Congress.

    (d) Duties, Responsibilities, Authority, and Reports.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> In general.--Sections 4, 5 
        (other than subsections (a)(13)), 6(a) (other than paragraphs 
        (7) and (8) thereof), and 7 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 
        (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Inspector General of the 
        Library of Congress and the Office of such Inspector General and 
        such sections shall be applied to the Library of Congress and 
        the Librarian of Congress by substituting--
                    (A) ``Library of Congress'' for ``establishment''; 
                and
                    (B) ``Librarian of Congress'' for ``head of the 
                establishment''.
            (2) Employees.--The Inspector General, in carrying out the 
        provisions of this section, is authorized to select, appoint, 
        and employ such officers and employees (including consultants) 
        as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and 
        duties of the Office of Inspector General subject to the 
        provisions of law governing selections, appointments, and 
        employment in the Library of Congress.

    (e) Transfers.--All functions, personnel, and budget resources of 
the Office of Investigations of the Library of Congress are transferred 
to the Office of Inspector General.
    (f) Incumbent.--The individual who serves in the position of 
Inspector General of the Library of Congress on the date of enactment of 
this Act shall continue to serve in that position, subject to removal in 
accordance with this section.
    (g) References.--References in any other Federal law, Executive 
order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of 
or relating to the Inspector General of the Library of Congress shall be 
deemed to refer to the Inspector General of the Library of Congress as 
set forth under this section.
    (h) Effective Date.--This section shall be effective upon enactment 
of this Act.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States Code); 
printing and binding of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $88,090,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year limitation 
under section 718 of

[[Page 119 STAT. 585]]

title 44, United States Code, none of the funds appropriated or made 
available under this Act or any other Act for printing and binding and 
related services provided to Congress under chapter 7 of title 44, 
United States Code, may be expended to print a document, report, or 
publication after the 27-month period beginning on the date that such 
document, report, or publication is authorized by Congress to be 
printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in accordance with 
section 718 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $33,337,000: Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations are 
authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial sets and 
other related publications for fiscal years 2004 and 2005 to depository 
and other designated libraries: Provided further, That any unobligated 
or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes 
for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Printing 
Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, 
subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and Senate.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$2,000,000 for workforce retraining: Provided, That the Government 
Printing Office may make such expenditures, within the limits of funds 
available and in accordance with law, and to make such contracts and 
commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by 
section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be necessary in 
carrying out the programs and purposes set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for the Government Printing Office revolving fund: 
Provided further, That not more than $5,000 may be expended on the 
certification of the Public Printer in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of not more 
than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, That expenditures in 
connection with travel expenses of the advisory councils to the Public 
Printer shall be deemed necessary to carry out the provisions of title 
44, United States Code: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall 
be available for temporary or intermittent services under section 
3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for individuals

[[Page 119 STAT. 586]]

not more than the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for 
level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title: 
Provided further, That the revolving fund and the funds provided under 
the headings ``Office of Superintendent of Documents'' and ``salaries 
and expenses'' together may not be available for the full-time 
equivalent employment of more than 2,621 workyears (or such other number 
of workyears as the Public Printer may request, subject to the approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate): Provided further, That activities financed through the 
revolving fund may provide information in any format: Provided further, 
That not more than $10,000 may be expended from the revolving fund in 
support of the activities of the Benjamin Franklin Tercentenary 
Commission established by Public Law 107-202.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 
31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by the 
Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters in 
foreign countries, $482,395,000: Provided, That not more than $5,104,000 
of payments received under section 782 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available for use in fiscal year 2006: Provided further, That 
not more than $2,061,000 of reimbursements received under section 9105 
of title 31, United States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal 
year 2006: Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations 
for administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by the 
respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may 
be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs 
involved are initially financed.

                 OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$14,000,000.

[[Page 119 STAT. 587]]

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 U.S.C. 
1105), $430,000.

                      TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. Maintenance and Care of Private Vehicles. No part of the 
funds appropriated in this Act shall be used for the maintenance or care 
of private vehicles, except for emergency assistance and cleaning as may 
be provided under regulations relating to parking facilities for the 
House of Representatives issued by the Committee on House Administration 
and for the Senate issued by the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 202. Fiscal Year Limitation. No part of the funds appropriated 
in this Act shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 
2006 unless expressly so provided in this Act.
    Sec. 203. Rates of Compensation and Designation. Whenever in this 
Act any office or position not specifically established by the 
Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 32 et seq.) is appropriated for or 
the rate of compensation or designation of any office or position 
appropriated for is different from that specifically established by such 
Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in this Act shall be 
the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That the provisions in 
this Act for the various items of official expenses of Members, 
officers, and committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and 
clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives 
shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> Consulting 
Services. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for any 
consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts where 
such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
existing Executive order issued under existing law.

    Sec. 205. Awards and Settlements. Such sums as may be necessary are 
appropriated to the account described in subsection (a) of section 415 
of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to 
pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 206. Costs of LBFMC. Amounts available for administrative 
expenses of any legislative branch entity which participates in the 
Legislative Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by 
charter on March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate 
share of LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total 
LBFMC costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch 
entities (in such allocations among the entities as the entities may 
determine) may not exceed $2,000.
    Sec. 207. Landscape Maintenance. The Architect of the Capitol, in 
consultation with the District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain 
and improve the landscape features, excluding streets and sidewalks, in 
the irregular shaped grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on 
the northeast, Second Street SW on

[[Page 119 STAT. 588]]

the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of the I-395 tunnel 
on the southeast.
    Sec. 208. Limitation on Transfers. None of the funds made available 
in this Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriation Act.

                 TITLE III--CONTINUITY IN REPRESENTATION

    Sec. 301. Section 26 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (2 
U.S.C. 8) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The time'' and inserting ``(a) In 
        General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the time''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) Special Rules in Extraordinary Circumstances.--
            ``(1) In general.--In extraordinary circumstances, the 
        executive authority of any State in which a vacancy exists in 
        its representation in the House of Representatives shall issue a 
        writ of election to fill such vacancy by special election.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Timing of special election.--A 
        special election held under this subsection to fill a vacancy 
        shall take place not later than 49 days after the Speaker of the 
        House of Representatives announces that the vacancy exists, 
        unless, during the 75-day period which begins on the date of the 
        announcement of the vacancy--
                    ``(A) a regularly scheduled general election for the 
                office involved is to be held; or
                    ``(B) another special election for the office 
                involved is to be held, pursuant to a writ for a special 
                election issued by the chief executive of the State 
                prior to the date of the announcement of the vacancy.
            ``(3) Nominations by parties.--If a special election is to 
        be held under this subsection, the determination of the 
        candidates who will run in such election shall be made--
                    ``(A) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> by nominations made not 
                later than 10 days after the Speaker announces that the 
                vacancy exists by the political parties of the State 
                that are authorized by State law to nominate candidates 
                for the election; or
                    ``(B) by any other method the State considers 
                appropriate, including holding primary elections, that 
                will ensure that the State will hold the special 
                election within the deadline required under paragraph 
                (2).
            ``(4) Extraordinary circumstances.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In this subsection, 
                `extraordinary circumstances' occur when the Speaker of 
                the House of Representatives announces that vacancies in 
                the representation from the States in the House exceed 
                100.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Judicial review.--If 
                any action is brought for declaratory or injunctive 
                relief to challenge an announcement made under 
                subparagraph (A), the following rules shall apply:
                          ``(i) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 2 
                      days after the announcement, the action shall be 
                      filed in the United States District Court having 
                      jurisdiction in the district of the Member of the 
                      House of Representatives whose seat has been 
                      announced to be vacant and shall be heard by a 3-

[[Page 119 STAT. 589]]

                      judge court convened pursuant to section 2284 of 
                      title 28, United States Code.
                          ``(ii) <<NOTE: Records.>> A copy of the 
                      complaint shall be delivered promptly to the Clerk 
                      of the House of Representatives.
                          ``(iii) A final decision in the action shall 
                      be made within 3 days of the filing of such action 
                      and shall not be reviewable.
                          ``(iv) The executive authority of the State 
                      that contains the district of the Member of the 
                      House of Representatives whose seat has been 
                      announced to be vacant shall have the right to 
                      intervene either in support of or opposition to 
                      the position of a party to the case regarding the 
                      announcement of such vacancy.
            ``(5) Protecting ability of absent military and overseas 
        voters to participate in special elections.--
                    ``(A) Deadline for transmittal of absentee 
                ballots.--In conducting a special election held under 
                this subsection to fill a vacancy in its representation, 
                the State shall ensure to the greatest extent 
                practicable (including through the use of electronic 
                means) that absentee ballots for the election are 
                transmitted to absent uniformed services voters and 
                overseas voters (as such terms are defined in the 
                Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act) not 
                later than 15 days after the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives announces that the vacancy exists.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Period for ballot transit 
                time.--Notwithstanding the deadlines referred to in 
                paragraphs (2) and (3), in the case of an individual who 
                is an absent uniformed services voter or an overseas 
                voter (as such terms are defined in the Uniformed and 
                Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act), a State shall 
                accept and process any otherwise valid ballot or other 
                election material from the voter so long as the ballot 
                or other material is received by the appropriate State 
                election official not later than 45 days after the State 
                transmits the ballot or other material to the voter.
            ``(6) Application to district of columbia and territories.--
        This subsection shall apply--
                    ``(A) to a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
                Congress in the same manner as it applies to a Member of 
                the House of Representatives; and
                    ``(B) to the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth 
                of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, and the United 
                States Virgin Islands in the same manner as it applies 
                to a State, except that a vacancy in the representation 
                from any such jurisdiction in the House shall not be 
                taken into account by the Speaker in determining whether 
                vacancies in the representation from the States in the 
                House exceed 100 for purposes of paragraph (4)(A).
            ``(7) Rule of construction regarding federal election 
        laws.--Nothing in this subsection may be construed to affect the 
        application to special elections under this subsection of any 
        Federal law governing the administration of elections for 
        Federal office (including any law providing for the enforcement 
        of any such law), including, but not limited to, the following:
                    ``(A) The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 1973 
                et seq.), as amended.

[[Page 119 STAT. 590]]

                    ``(B) The Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and 
                Handicapped Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ee et seq.), as amended.
                    ``(C) The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee 
                Voting Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ff et seq.), as amended.
                    ``(D) The National Voter Registration Act of 1993 
                (42 U.S.C. 1973gg et seq.), as amended.
                    ``(E) The Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 
                (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), as amended.
                    ``(F) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 
                et seq.), as amended.
                    ``(G) The Help America Vote Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 
                15301 et seq.), as amended.''.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2006''.

    Approved August 2, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2985:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 109-139 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 109-189 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-89 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            June 22, considered and passed House.
            June 30, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            July 28, House agreed to conference report.
            July 29, Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>