[109th Congress Public Law 386]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ386.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 2683]]

Public Law 109-386
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to revise certain repayment 
contracts with the Bostwick Irrigation District in Nebraska, the Kansas 
 Bostwick Irrigation District No. 2, the Frenchman-Cambridge Irrigation 
 District, and the Webster Irrigation District No. 4, all a part of the 
Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 
                       12, 2006 -  [H.R. 4000]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. BOSTWICK IRRIGATION DISTRICT IN NEBRASKA; REPAYMENTS 
                              EQUALIZED AND RESERVE FUNDS 
                              CONTRIBUTIONS EXTENDED.

    The Secretary of the Interior may revise the repayment contract with 
the Bostwick Irrigation District in Nebraska numbered 009D6B0121 and all 
amendatory contracts thereto, by equalizing the annual total repayment 
obligation under the contracts for the distribution works construction 
charge and the water supply repayment obligation for the remaining years 
of the contract relying upon the annual water supply repayment 
obligation as of the date of the enactment of this Act as the base for 
equalizing the annual total payments and by extending the date for 
adjusting the annual deposits into the distribution works reserve fund 
and the district water supply reserve fund for an additional 10 years.
SEC. 2. KANSAS BOSTWICK IRRIGATION DISTRICT NO 2; REPAYMENTS 
                    EQUALIZED AND RESERVE FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS 
                    EXTENDED.

    The Secretary of the Interior may revise the repayment contract with 
the Kansas Bostwick Irrigation District No. 2 numbered 009D6B0120 and 
all amendatory contracts thereto, by equalizing the annual total 
repayment obligation under the contracts for the distribution works 
construction charge and the water supply repayment obligation for the 
remaining years of the contract relying upon the annual water supply 
repayment obligation as of the date of the enactment of this Act as the 
base for equalizing the annual total payments and by extending the date 
for adjusting the annual deposits into the distribution works reserve 
fund and the district water supply reserve fund for an additional 10 
years.
SEC. 3. FRENCHMAN-CAMBRIDGE IRRIGATION DISTRICT; REPAYMENTS 
                    EQUALIZED AND RESERVE FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS 
                    EXTENDED.

    The Secretary of the Interior may revise the repayment contract with 
the Frenchman-Cambridge Irrigation District numbered 009D6B0122 and all 
amendatory contracts thereto, by equalizing the annual total repayment 
obligation under the contracts for the

[[Page 120 STAT. 2684]]

distribution works construction charge and the water supply repayment 
obligation for the remaining years of the contract relying upon the 
annual water supply repayment obligation as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act as the base for equalizing the annual total payments and by 
extending the date for adjusting the annual deposits into the 
distribution works reserve fund and the district water supply reserve 
fund for an additional 10 years.
SEC. 4. WEBSTER IRRIGATION DISTRICT; REPAYMENTS EQUALIZED AND 
                    RESERVE FUNDS CONTRIBUTIONS EXTENDED.

    The Secretary of the Interior may revise the repayment contract with 
the Webster Irrigation District numbered 039D6B0002 and all amendatory 
contracts thereto, by equalizing the annual total repayment obligation 
under the contracts for the distribution works construction charge and 
the water supply repayment obligation for the remaining years of the 
contract relying upon the annual water supply repayment obligation as of 
the date of the enactment of this Act as the base for equalizing the 
annual total payments and by extending the date for adjusting the annual 
deposits into the distribution works reserve fund and the district water 
supply reserve fund for an additional 10 years.

    Approved December 12, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4000:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-315 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 151 (2005):
                                    Dec. 18, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 152 (2006):
                                    Nov. 16, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>