[109th Congress Public Law 18]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ018.109]

[[Page 339]]

  PATIENT NAVIGATOR OUTREACH AND CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION ACT OF 2005

[[Page 119 STAT. 340]]

Public Law 109-18
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize a demonstration 
 grant program to provide patient navigator services to reduce barriers 
 and improve health care outcomes, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 
                       29, 2005 -  [H.R. 1812]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Patient Navigator Outreach 
and Chronic Disease Prevention Act of 2005.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 201 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Patient Navigator Outreach and 
Chronic Disease Prevention Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. PATIENT NAVIGATOR GRANTS.

    Subpart V of part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 256) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 340A. <<NOTE: 42 USC 256a.>> PATIENT NAVIGATOR GRANTS.

    ``(a) Grants.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of 
the Health Resources and Services Administration, may make grants to 
eligible entities for the development and operation of demonstration 
programs to provide patient navigator services to improve health care 
outcomes. The Secretary shall coordinate with, and ensure the 
participation of, the Indian Health Service, the National Cancer 
Institute, the Office of Rural Health Policy, and such other offices and 
agencies as deemed appropriate by the Secretary, regarding the design 
and evaluation of the demonstration programs.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--The Secretary shall require each recipient of a 
grant under this section to use the grant to recruit, assign, train, and 
employ patient navigators who have direct knowledge of the communities 
they serve to facilitate the care of individuals, including by 
performing each of the following duties:
            ``(1) Acting as contacts, including by assisting in the 
        coordination of health care services and provider referrals, for 
        individuals who are seeking prevention or early detection 
        services for, or who following a screening or early detection 
        service are found to have a symptom, abnormal finding, or 
        diagnosis of, cancer or other chronic disease.
            ``(2) Facilitating the involvement of community 
        organizations in assisting individuals who are at risk for or 
        who have cancer or other chronic diseases to receive better 
        access to high-quality health care services (such as by creating 
        partnerships with patient advocacy groups, charities, health 
        care centers, community hospice centers, other health care 
        providers, or other organizations in the targeted community).

[[Page 119 STAT. 341]]

            ``(3) Notifying individuals of clinical trials and, on 
        request, facilitating enrollment of eligible individuals in 
        these trials.
            ``(4) Anticipating, identifying, and helping patients to 
        overcome barriers within the health care system to ensure prompt 
        diagnostic and treatment resolution of an abnormal finding of 
        cancer or other chronic disease.
            ``(5) Coordinating with the relevant health insurance 
        ombudsman programs to provide information to individuals who are 
        at risk for or who have cancer or other chronic diseases about 
        health coverage, including private insurance, health care 
        savings accounts, and other publicly funded programs (such as 
        Medicare, Medicaid, health programs operated by the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense, the State 
        children's health insurance program, and any private or 
        governmental prescription assistance programs).
            ``(6) Conducting ongoing outreach to health disparity 
        populations, including the uninsured, rural populations, and 
        other medically underserved populations, in addition to 
        assisting other individuals who are at risk for or who have 
        cancer or other chronic diseases to seek preventative care.

    ``(c) Prohibitions.--
            ``(1) Referral fees.--The Secretary shall require each 
        recipient of a grant under this section to prohibit any patient 
        navigator providing services under the grant from accepting any 
        referral fee, kickback, or other thing of value in return for 
        referring an individual to a particular health care provider.
            ``(2) Legal fees and costs.--The Secretary shall prohibit 
        the use of any grant funds received under this section to pay 
        any fees or costs resulting from any litigation, arbitration, 
        mediation, or other proceeding to resolve a legal dispute.

    ``(d) Grant Period.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Secretary may award grants under this section for periods of not 
        more than 3 years.
            ``(2) Extensions.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary 
        may extend the period of a grant under this section. Each such 
        extension shall be for a period of not more than 1 year.
            ``(3) Limitations on grant period.--In carrying out this 
        section, the Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall ensure that the total period of a grant 
                does not exceed 4 years; and
                    ``(B) may not authorize any grant period ending 
                after September 30, 2010.

    ``(e) Application.--
            ``(1) In general.--To seek a grant under this section, an 
        eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary in 
        such form, in such manner, and containing such information as 
        the Secretary may require.
            ``(2) Contents.--At a minimum, the Secretary shall require 
        each such application to outline how the eligible entity will 
        establish baseline measures and benchmarks that meet the 
        Secretary's requirements to evaluate program outcomes.

    ``(f) Uniform Baseline Measures.--The Secretary shall establish 
uniform baseline measures in order to properly evaluate the impact of 
the demonstration projects under this section.
    ``(g) Preference.--In making grants under this section, the 
Secretary shall give preference to eligible entities that demonstrate

[[Page 119 STAT. 342]]

in their applications plans to utilize patient navigator services to 
overcome significant barriers in order to improve health care outcomes 
in their respective communities.
    ``(h) Duplication of Services.--An eligible entity that is receiving 
Federal funds for activities described in subsection (b) on the date on 
which the entity submits an application under subsection (e) may not 
receive a grant under this section unless the entity can demonstrate 
that amounts received under the grant will be utilized to expand 
services or provide new services to individuals who would not otherwise 
be served.
    ``(i) Coordination With Other Programs.--The Secretary shall ensure 
coordination of the demonstration grant program under this section with 
existing authorized programs in order to facilitate access to high-
quality health care services.
    ``(j) Study; Reports.--
            ``(1) Final report by secretary.--Not later than 6 months 
        after the completion of the demonstration grant program under 
        this section, the Secretary shall conduct a study of the results 
        of the program and submit to the Congress a report on such 
        results that includes the following:
                    ``(A) An evaluation of the program outcomes, 
                including--
                          ``(i) quantitative analysis of baseline and 
                      benchmark measures; and
                          ``(ii) aggregate information about the 
                      patients served and program activities.
                    ``(B) Recommendations on whether patient navigator 
                programs could be used to improve patient outcomes in 
                other public health areas.
            ``(2) Interim reports by secretary.--The Secretary may 
        provide interim reports to the Congress on the demonstration 
        grant program under this section at such intervals as the 
        Secretary determines to be appropriate.
            ``(3) Reports by grantees.--The Secretary may require grant 
        recipients under this section to submit interim and final 
        reports on grant program outcomes.

    ``(k) Rule of Construction.--This section shall not be construed to 
authorize funding for the delivery of health care services (other than 
the patient navigator duties listed in subsection (b)).
    ``(l) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `eligible entity' means a public or nonprofit 
        private health center (including a Federally qualified health 
        center (as that term is defined in section 1861(aa)(4) of the 
        Social Security Act)), a health facility operated by or pursuant 
        to a contract with the Indian Health Service, a hospital, a 
        cancer center, a rural health clinic, an academic health center, 
        or a nonprofit entity that enters into a partnership or 
        coordinates referrals with such a center, clinic, facility, or 
        hospital to provide patient navigator services.
            ``(2) The term `health disparity population' means a 
        population that, as determined by the Secretary, has a 
        significant disparity in the overall rate of disease incidence, 
        prevalence, morbidity, mortality, or survival rates as compared 
        to the health status of the general population.
            ``(3) The term `patient navigator' means an individual who 
        has completed a training program approved by the Secretary to 
        perform the duties listed in subsection (b).

[[Page 119 STAT. 343]]

    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--To carry out this section, there are 
        authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2006, 
        $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2007, $8,000,000 for fiscal year 
        2008, $6,500,000 for fiscal year 2009, and $3,500,000 for fiscal 
        year 2010.
            ``(2) Availability.--The amounts appropriated pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall remain available for obligation through the 
        end of fiscal year 2010.''.

    Approved June 29, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1812 (S. 898):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 109-104 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-73 accompanying S. 898 (Comm. on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            June 13, considered and passed House.
            June 22, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>