[109th Congress Public Law 45]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ045.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 445]]

Public Law 109-45
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To further the purposes of the Sand Creek Massacre National Historic 
  Site Establishment Act of 2000. <<NOTE: Aug. 2, 2005 -  [H.R. 481]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Sand Creek Massacre 
National Historic Trust Act of 2005. 16 USC 461 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sand Creek Massacre National Historic 
Site Trust Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Facility.--The term ``facility'' means any structure, 
        utility, road, or sign constructed on the trust property on or 
        after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Improvement.--The term ``improvement'' means--
                    (A) a 1,625 square foot 1-story ranch house, built 
                in 1952, located in the SW quarter of sec. 30, T. 17 S., 
                R. 45 W., sixth principal meridian;
                    (B) a 3,600 square foot metal-constructed shop 
                building, built in 1975, located in the SW quarter of 
                sec. 30, T. 17 S., R. 45 W., sixth principal meridian;
                    (C) a livestock corral and shelter; and
                    (D) a water system and wastewater system with all 
                associated utility connections.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Cheyenne and 
        Arapaho Tribes of Oklahoma, a federally recognized Indian tribe.
            (5) Trust property.--The term ``trust property'' means the 
        real property, including rights to all minerals, and excluding 
        the improvements, formerly known as the ``Dawson Ranch'', 
        consisting of approximately 1,465 total acres presently under 
        the jurisdiction of the Tribe, situated within Kiowa County, 
        Colorado, and more particularly described as follows:
                    (A) The portion of sec. 24, T. 17 S., R. 46 W., 
                sixth principal meridian, that is the Eastern half of 
                the NW quarter, the SW quarter of the NE quarter, the NW 
                quarter of the SE quarter, sixth principal meridian.
                    (B) All of sec. 25, T. 17 S., R. 46 W., sixth 
                principal meridian.
                    (C) All of sec. 30, T. 17 S., R. 45 W., sixth 
                principal meridian.

[[Page 119 STAT. 446]]

SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR THE CHEYENNE AND 
            ARAPAHO TRIBES OF OKLAHOMA.

    (a) Land Held in Trust for the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes of 
Oklahoma.--On conveyance of title to the trust property by the Tribe to 
the United States, without any further action by the Secretary, the 
trust property shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Tribe.
    (b) Trust.--All right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the trust property, except any facilities constructed under 
section 4(b), are declared to be held by the United States in trust for 
the Tribe.

SEC. 4. IMPROVEMENTS AND FACILITIES.

    (a) Improvements.--The Secretary may acquire by donation the 
improvements in fee.
    (b) Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may construct a facility on 
        the trust property only after consulting with, soliciting advice 
        from, and obtaining the agreement of, the Tribe, the Northern 
        Cheyenne Tribe, and the Northern Arapaho Tribe.
            (2) Ownership.--Facilities constructed with Federal funds or 
        funds donated to the United States shall be owned in fee by the 
        United States.

    (c) Federal Funds.--For the purposes of the construction, 
maintenance, or demolition of improvements or facilities, Federal funds 
shall be expended only on improvements or facilities that are owned in 
fee by the United States.

SEC. 5. SURVEY OF BOUNDARY LINE; PUBLICATION OF DESCRIPTION.

    (a) Survey of Boundary Line.--To <<NOTE: Deadline.>> accurately 
establish the boundary of the trust property, not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall cause a 
survey to be conducted by the Office of Cadastral Survey of the Bureau 
of Land Management of the boundary lines described in section 2(5).

    (b) Publication of Land Description.--
            (1) In general.--On <<NOTE: Federal 
        Register, publication.>> completion of the survey under 
        subsection (a), and acceptance of the survey by the 
        representatives of the Tribe, the Secretary shall cause the full 
        metes and bounds description of the lines, with a full and 
        accurate description of the trust property, to be published in 
        the Federal Register.
            (2) Effect.--The description shall, on publication, 
        constitute the official description of the trust property.

SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION OF TRUST PROPERTY.

    (a) In General.--The trust property shall be administered in 
perpetuity by the Secretary as part of the Sand Creek Massacre National 
Historic Site, only for historical, traditional, cultural, and other 
uses in accordance with the Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site 
Establishment Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 106-465).
    (b) Access for Administration.--For purposes of administration, the 
Secretary shall have access to the trust property, improvements, and 
facilities as necessary for management of the Sand Creek Massacre 
National Historic Site in accordance with the Sand Creek Massacre 
National Historic Site Establishment Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; 
Public Law 106-465).

[[Page 119 STAT. 447]]

    (c) Duty of the Secretary.--The Secretary shall take such action as 
is necessary to ensure that the trust property is used only in 
accordance with this section.
    (d) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this Act supersedes the laws and 
policies governing units of the National Park System.

SEC. 7. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.

    Section 6(a)(2) of the Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site 
Establishment Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 106-465) is 
amended by inserting ``or exchange'' after ``only by donation''.

    Approved August 2, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 481 (S. 57):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 109-107 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-20 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            June 27, considered and passed House.
            July 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>