[109th Congress Public Law 138]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ138.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 2647]]

Public Law 109-138
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize early repayment of obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation 
    within Rogue River Valley Irrigation District or within Medford 
      Irrigation District. <<NOTE: Dec. 22, 2005 -  [H.R. 4195]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Southern Oregon 
Bureau of Reclamation Repayment Act of 2005.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Southern Oregon Bureau of Reclamation 
Repayment Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. EARLY REPAYMENT.

    Notwithstanding the provisions of section 213 of the Reclamation 
Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390mm), any landowner within Rogue River 
Valley Irrigation District or within Medford Irrigation District, in 
Oregon, may repay, at any time, the construction costs of the project 
facilities allocated to that landowner's lands within the district in 
question. Upon discharge, in full, of the obligation for repayment of 
the construction costs allocated to all lands the landowner owns in the 
district in question, those lands shall not be subject to the ownership 
and full-cost pricing limitations of the Act of June 17, 1902 (43 U.S.C. 
371 et seq.), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act, 
including the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa et seq.).

SEC. 3. LIMITATION.

    Nothing herein modifies contractual rights that may exist between 
Rogue River Valley Irrigation District and Medford Irrigation District 
and the United States under their respective Reclamation contracts, or 
amends or reopens those contracts; nor does it modify any rights, 
obligations or relationships that may exist between the districts and 
their landowners as may be provided or governed by Oregon State law.

SEC. 4. CERTIFICATION.

    Upon the request of a landowner who has repaid, in full, the 
construction costs of the project facilities allocated to that 
landowner's lands owned within the district, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall provide the certification provided for in subsection

[[Page 119 STAT. 2648]]

(b)(1) of section 213 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 
390mm(b)(1)).

    Approved December 22, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4195 (S. 1760):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 109-323 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-197 accompanying S. 1760 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            Dec. 6, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 16, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>