[109th Congress Public Law 74]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ074.109]

[[Page 2029]]

   SPORTFISHING AND RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2005

[[Page 119 STAT. 2030]]

Public Law 109-74
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To ensure funding for sportfishing and boating safety programs funded 
 out of the Highway Trust Fund through the end of fiscal year 2005, and 
      for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 29, 2005 -  [H.R. 3649]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Sportfishing and 
Recreational Boating Safety Amendments Act of 2005.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 777 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sportfishing and Recreational Boating 
Safety Amendments Act of 2005''.

TITLE I--CORRECTIONS TO THE SPORTFISHING AND RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY 
                               ACT OF 2005

SEC. 101. EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety 
Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-59) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1927.>> by striking section 
        10112(b)(2); and
            (2) by inserting after section 10101 the following:

``SEC. 10102. <<NOTE: 16 USC 777b note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    ``The amendments made by this subtitle shall take effect October 1, 
2005.''.
    (b) Temporary <<NOTE: 16 USC 777b note.>> Preservation of Existing 
Law.--Except as provided by the amendments made by title II of this Act, 
during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of the 
Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety Act of 2005, and ending 
upon the expiration of fiscal year 2005, the provisions of law amended 
by the Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety Act of 2005 (as 
amended by this Act) shall be considered to read as such laws read 
immediately before the enactment of that Act.

SEC. 102. RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY FUNDS.

    Section 10143 of the Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety 
Act of 2005 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1931.>> (Public Law 109-59) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``under section 10119 of 
        the Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety Act of 2005'' 
        and inserting ``under section 15 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport 
        Fish Restoration Act'';
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``subsection (a)(2) of 
        section 4 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 
        U.S.C. 777c(a)(2))'' and inserting ``subsections (a)(2) and (f) 
        of section

[[Page 119 STAT. 2031]]

        4 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 
        777c(a)(2) and (f))'';
            (3) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B) by inserting a closed 
                parenthesis after ``(16 U.S.C. 777c(a)(2)''; and
                    (B) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D) and 
                inserting the following:
                    ``(C) by striking `$5,000,000' and inserting 
                `$5,500,000'; and
                    ``(D) by inserting `not less than' before 
                `$2,000,000'; and''; and
            (4) in paragraph (5) by striking ``unexpected'' and 
        inserting ``unexpended''.

SEC. 103. EXPENDITURE OF REMAINING BALANCE IN BOAT SAFETY ACCOUNT.

    Section 10119 of the Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety 
Act of 2005 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1929.>> (Public Law 109-59) is amended in 
the text proposed to be inserted as section 15 of the Dingell-Johnson 
Sport Fish Restoration Act--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(A)(v) of such text by striking ``of 
        this Act'' and inserting ``of that section'';
            (2) in paragraphs (1) through (4) of such text by striking 
        ``subsection (b) of that section'' each place it appears in such 
        text and inserting ``subsection (c) of that section''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``subsection 
                (b)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(2) of that 
                section''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``subsection 
                (h)'' and inserting ``subsection (c) of that section''.

 TITLE II--EXTENSION OF RECREATIONAL BOATING FUNDING THROUGH THE END OF 
                            FISCAL YEAR 2005

SEC. 201. NATIONAL OUTREACH AND COMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM FUNDING.

    Section 4(c)(7) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act 
(16 U.S.C. 777c(c)(7)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(7) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;''.

SEC. 202. CLEAN VESSEL ACT FUNDING.

    Section 4(b)(4) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act 
(16 U.S.C. 777c(b)(4)) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading by striking ``First 303 days of 
        fiscal'' and inserting ``Fiscal'';
            (2) by striking ``July 30, 2005'' and inserting ``September 
        30, 2005'';
            (3) by striking ``$68,071,233'' and inserting 
        ``$82,000,000'';
            (4) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``$8,301,370'' and 
        inserting ``$10,000,000''; and
            (5) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``$6,641,096'' and 
        inserting ``$8,000,000''.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2032]]

SEC. 203. COAST GUARD EXPENSES.

    Section 13106(c)(1) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$4,150,685'' and inserting ``$5,000,000''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``$1,660,274'' and inserting ``$2,000,000''.

 TITLE III--EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF FUNDS IN BOAT SAFETY 
                                 ACCOUNT

SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF FUNDS IN BOAT SAFETY 
            ACCOUNT FOR OBLIGATIONS BEFORE OCTOBER 1, 2005.

    (a) Boat Safety Account.--Subsection (c) of section 9504 of 
the <<NOTE: 26 USC 9504.>> Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to 
expenditures from boat safety account) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``August 15, 2005'' and inserting ``October 
        1, 2005''; and
            (2) by striking ``Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
        2005, Part VI'' and inserting ``Sportfishing and Recreational 
        Boating Safety Amendments Act of 2005''.

    (b) Effective <<NOTE: 26 USC 9504 note.>> Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 302. CORRECTION OF DISTRIBUTION OF OBLIGATION AUTHORITY UNDER 
            SECTION 1102(c)(4)(A) OF PUBLIC LAW 109-59.

    Notwithstanding section 1102(c)(4)(A) of Public Law 109-59; 119 
Stat. 1144, et seq., or any other provision of law, for fiscal year 
2005, obligation authority for funds made available under title I of 
division H of Public Law 108-447; 118 Stat. 3216 for expenses necessary 
to discharge the functions of the Secretary of Transportation with 
respect to traffic and highway safety under chapter 301 of title 49, 
United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States 
Code, shall be made available in an amount equal to the funds provided 
therein: Provided, That the additional obligation authority needed to 
meet the requirements of this section shall be withdrawn from the 
obligation authority previously distributed to the other programs, 
projects, and activities 


[[Page 119 STAT. 2033]]

funded by the amount deducted under section 117 of title I of division H 
of Public Law 108-447.

    Approved September 29, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3649:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            Sept. 13, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 15, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 20, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>