[109th Congress Public Law 42]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ042.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 435]]

Public Law 109-42
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide an extension of administrative expenses for highway, highway 
safety, motor carrier safety, transit, and other programs funded out of 
  the Highway Trust Fund pending enactment of a law reauthorizing the 
    Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century. <<NOTE: July 30, 
                         2005 -  [H.R. 3512]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 2005, Part VI.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 23 USC 101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Surface Transportation Extension Act 
of 2005, Part VI''.

SEC. 2. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES FOR FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAY PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Contract Authority.--Section 4(a) of the 
Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2004, Part V (118 Stat. 1147, 
119 Stat. 325) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 411.>> is amended by striking 
``$292,179,920'' and inserting ``$309,260,880''.

    (b) Limitation on Obligations.--Of the obligation limitation made 
available for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction 
programs for fiscal year 2005 by division H of Public Law 108-447 (118 
Stat. 3204) not more than $17,080,960 shall be available, in addition to 
any obligation limitation previously provided, for administrative 
expenses of the Federal Highway Administration for the period of July 
30, 2005, through August 14, 2005.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2(e)(3) of such Act (118 Stat. 
1146, 119 Stat. 325) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 412.>> is amended by striking 
``July 30'' and inserting ``August 14''.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES FOR NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY 
            ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--There shall be available from the Highway Trust 
Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) for the Secretary of 
Transportation to pay the administrative expenses of the National 
Highway Traffic Administration in carrying out the highway safety 
programs authorized by sections 157 and 163 of chapter 1 of title 23, 
United States Code, and sections 402, 403, 405, and 410 of chapter 4 of 
such title, the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 49, 
United States Code, the motor vehicle safety program under chapter 301 
of such title 49, and the motor vehicle information and cost savings 
program under part C of subtitle VI of such title 49 $4,125,000 for the 
period of July 30, 2005, through August 14, 2005.

[[Page 119 STAT. 436]]

    (b) Contract Authority.--Funds made available by this section shall 
be available for obligation in the same manner as if such funds were 
apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code; except that 
such funds shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES FOR MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION 
            PROGRAM.

    Section 7(a)(1) of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2004, 
Part V (118 Stat. 1153; 119 Stat. 330) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 416.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``$213,799,290'' and inserting 
        ``$224,383,414''; and
            (2) by striking ``July 30'' and inserting ``August 14''.

SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES FOR FEDERAL TRANSIT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 5338(f)(2) of title 
49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the heading by striking ``july 30'' and inserting 
        ``august 14'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A)(vii)--
                    (A) by striking ``$54,350,686'' and inserting 
                ``$57,650,686''; and
                    (B) by striking ``July 30'' and inserting ``August 
                14''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (B)(vii) by striking ``July 30'' and 
        inserting ``August 14''.

    (b) Obligation Ceiling.--Section 3040(7) of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 394; 118 Stat. 885; 118 Stat. 
1158; 119 Stat. 333) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 420.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$6,398,695,996'' and inserting 
        ``$6,401,995,996''; and
            (2) by striking ``July 30'' and inserting ``August 14''.

SEC. 6. BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS.

    (a) In General.--Section 5001(a)(4) of the Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 420; 118 Stat. 1150; 119 Stat. 327; 119 
Stat. 346; 119 Stat. 379; 119 Stat. 394) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 413.>> is 
amended by striking ``$25,730,000 for the period of October 1, 2004, 
through July 30, 2005'' and inserting ``$27,000,000 for the period of 
October 1, 2004, through August 14, 2005''.

    (b) Limitation on Obligations.--Of the obligation limitation made 
available for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction 
programs for fiscal year 2005 by division H of Public Law 108-447 (118 
Stat. 3204) not more than $1,270,000 shall be available, in addition to 
any obligation limitation previously provided, for administrative 
expenses of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics for the period of 
July 30, 2005, through August 14, 2005.

SEC. 7. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF TRUST FUNDS FOR 
            OBLIGATIONS UNDER TEA-21.

    (a) Highway Trust Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (1) of section 9503(c) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503.>> is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter before subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``July 31, 2005'' and inserting ``August 15, 
                2005'',
                    (B) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (O),

[[Page 119 STAT. 437]]

                    (C) by striking the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (P) and inserting ``, or'',
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (P) the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(Q) authorized to be paid out of the Highway Trust 
                Fund under the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
                2005, Part VI.'', and
                    (E) in the matter after subparagraph (Q), as added 
                by this paragraph, by striking ``Surface Transportation 
                Extension Act of 2005, Part V'' and inserting ``Surface 
                Transportation Extension Act of 2005, Part VI''.
            (2) Mass transit account.--Paragraph (3) of section 9503(e) 
        of such Code is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``July 31, 2005'' and inserting ``August 15, 
                2005'',
                    (B) in subparagraph (M), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end of such subparagraph,
                    (C) in subparagraph (N), by inserting ``or'' at the 
                end of such subparagraph,
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (N) the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(O) the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
                2005, Part VI,'', and
                    (E) in the matter after subparagraph (O), as added 
                by this paragraph, by striking ``Surface Transportation 
                Extension Act of 2005, Part V'' and inserting ``Surface 
                Transportation Extension Act of 2005, Part VI''.
            (3) Exception to limitation on transfers.--Subparagraph (B) 
        of section 9503(b)(6) of such Code is amended by adding at the 
        end the following: ``The preceding sentence shall be applied by 
        substituting `August 15, 2005' for the date therein.''.

    (b) Aquatic Resources Trust Fund.--
            (1) Sport fish restoration account.--Paragraph (2) of 
        section 9504(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 
        USC 9504.>> is amended by adding at the end the following: 
        ``Subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) shall each be applied by 
        substituting `Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2005, Part 
        VI' for `Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2005, Part 
        V'.''.
            (2) Boat safety account.--Subsection (c) of section 9504 of 
        such Code is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``July 31, 2005'' and inserting 
                ``August 15, 2005'', and
                    (B) by striking ``Surface Transportation Extension 
                Act of 2005, Part V'' and inserting ``Surface 
                Transportation Extension Act of 2005, Part VI''.
            (3) Exception to limitation on transfers.--Paragraph (2) of 
        section 9504(d) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new <<NOTE: Applicability.>> sentence: ``The preceding 
        sentence shall be applied by substituting `August 15, 2005' for 
        the date therein.''.

    (c) Temporary Rule Regarding Adjustments.--During the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of the Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 2003 and ending on August 14, 2005, for purposes of 
making any estimate under section 9503(d) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 of receipts of the Highway Trust Fund, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall treat--

[[Page 119 STAT. 438]]

            (1) each expiring provision of paragraphs (1) through (4) of 
        section 9503(b) of such Code which is related to appropriations 
        or transfers to such Fund to have been extended through the end 
        of the 24-month period referred to in section 9503(d)(1)(B) of 
        such Code, and
            (2) with respect to each tax imposed under the sections 
        referred to in section 9503(b)(1) of such Code, the rate of such 
        tax during the 24-month period referred to in section 
        9503(d)(1)(B) of such Code to be the same as the rate of such 
        tax as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Surface 
        Transportation Extension Act of 2003.

    (d) Subsequent Repeal of Certain Temporary Provisions.--Each of the 
following provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are amended by 
striking the last sentence thereof:
            (1) <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503.>> Section 9503(b)(6)(B).
            (2) <<NOTE: 26 USC 9504.>> Section 9504(b)(2).
            (3) Section 9504(d)(2).

    (e) Effective <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503 note.>> Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Subsequent repeal.--The amendments made by subsection 
        (d) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of the Safe, 
        Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A 
        Legacy for Users and shall be executed immediately before the 
        amendments made by such Act.

    Approved July 30, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3512:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            July 29, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>