[109th Congress Public Law 19]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ019.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 344]]

Public Law 109-19
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families block grant 
program through September 30, 2005, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 
                        1, 2005 -  [H.R. 3021]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: TANF Extension Act of 
2005.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1305 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``TANF Extension Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF THE TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES BLOCK 
            GRANT PROGRAM THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 2005.

    (a) In General.--Activities authorized by part A of title IV of the 
Social Security Act, and by sections 510, 1108(b), and 1925 of such Act, 
shall continue through September 30, 2005, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2004, notwithstanding section 1902(e)(1)(A) of such Act, and 
out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise 
appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for such purpose. Grants and payments may be made pursuant to 
this authority through the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 at the 
level provided for such activities through the fourth quarter of fiscal 
year 2004.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 403(a)(3)(H)(ii) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(3)(H)(ii)) is amended by striking ``June 
30'' and inserting ``September 30''.

SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF THE NATIONAL RANDOM SAMPLE STUDY OF CHILD WELFARE 
            AND CHILD WELFARE WAIVER AUTHORITY THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 
            2005.

    Activities authorized by sections 429A and 1130(a) of the Social 
Security Act shall continue through September 30, 2005, in the manner 
authorized for fiscal year 2004, and out of any money in the Treasury of 
the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. Grants and 
payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2005

[[Page 119 STAT. 345]]

at the level provided for such activities through the fourth quarter of 
fiscal year 2004.

    Approved July 1, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3021:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            June 29, considered and passed House.
            June 30, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>