[109th Congress Public Law 61]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ061.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 1988]]

Public Law 109-61
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making emergency supplemental appropriations to meet immediate needs 
arising from the consequences of Hurricane Katrina, for the fiscal year 
  ending September 30, 2005, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 2, 
                         2005 -  [H.R. 3645]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act to Meet Immediate Needs Arising From the 
Consequences of Hurricane Katrina, 2005.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2005, namely:

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE

                             Disaster Relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'', $10,000,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the amount provided 
herein is designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 402 
of H. Con. Res. 95 (109th Congress).

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> an additional amount for ``Operation 
and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $500,000,000 for emergency hurricane 
expenses, to support costs of evacuation, emergency repairs, deployment 
of personnel, and other costs resulting from immediate relief efforts, 
to remain available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds to appropriations for 
military personnel, operation and maintenance, procurement, family 
housing, Defense Health Program, and working capital funds: Provided 
further, That funds transferred shall be merged with and be available 
for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriation 
or fund to which transferred: Provided further, That this transfer 
authority is in addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense: Provided further, That upon a determination 
that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are 
not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary of Defense

[[Page 119 STAT. 1989]]

shall, not more than 5 days after making transfers from this 
appropriation, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of 
any such transfer: Provided further, That the amount provided herein is 
designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 402 of H. 
Con. Res. 95 (109th Congress).

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act to Meet Immediate Needs Arising From the Consequences of Hurricane 
Katrina, 2005''.

    Approved September 2, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3645:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            Sept. 2, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>