[109th Congress Public Law 481]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ481.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 3673]]

Public Law 109-481
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend title 18, United States Code, to prevent and repress the misuse 
   of the Red Crescent distinctive emblem and the Third Protocol (Red 
  Crystal) distinctive emblem. <<NOTE: Jan. 12, 2007 -  [H.R. 6338]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Geneva 
Distinctive Emblems Protection Act of 2006.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 18 USC 1 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Geneva Distinctive Emblems Protection 
Act of 2006''.

SEC. 2. GENEVA DISTINCTIVE EMBLEMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 33 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 706 the following:

``Sec. 706a. Geneva distinctive emblems

    ``(a) Whoever wears or displays the sign of the Red Crescent or the 
Third Protocol Emblem (the Red Crystal), or any insignia colored in 
imitation thereof for the fraudulent purpose of inducing the belief that 
he is a member of or an agent for an authorized national society using 
the Red Crescent or the Third Protocol Emblem, the International 
Committee of the Red Cross, or the International Federation of Red Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies shall be fined under this title or imprisoned 
not more than 6 months, or both.
    ``(b) Except as set forth in section (c) and (d), whoever, whether a 
corporation, association, or person, uses the emblem of the Red Crescent 
or the Third Protocol Emblem on a white ground or any sign or insignia 
made or colored in imitation thereof or the designations `Red Crescent' 
or `Third Protocol Emblem' shall be fined under this title or imprisoned 
not more than 6 months, or both.
    ``(c) The following may use such emblems and designations consistent 
with the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949, and, if applicable, the 
Additional Protocols:
            ``(1) Authorized national societies that are members of the 
        International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies 
        and their duly authorized employees and agents.
            ``(2) The International Committee of the Red Cross and its 
        duly authorized employees and agents.
            ``(3) The International Federation of Red Cross and Red 
        Crescent Societies and its duly authorized employees and agents.

[[Page 120 STAT. 3674]]

            ``(4) The sanitary and hospital authorities of the armed 
        forces of State Parties to the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 
        1949.

    ``(d) This section does not make unlawful the use of any such 
emblem, sign, insignia, or words which was lawful on or before December 
8, 2005, if such use would not appear in time of armed conflict to 
confer the protections of the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949, 
and, if applicable, the Additional Protocols.
    ``(e) A violation of this section or section 706 may be enjoined at 
the civil suit of the Attorney General.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 33 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 706 the following new item:

``706a. Geneva distinctive emblems.''.

    Approved January 12, 2007.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 6338:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            Dec. 5, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>