[109th Congress Public Law 389]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 120 STAT. 2690]]

Public Law 109-389
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the conveyance of the former Konnarock Lutheran Girls 
  School in Smyth County, Virginia, which is currently owned by the 
  United States and administered by the Forest Service, to facilitate
  the restoration and reuse of the property, and for other purposes.
                <<NOTE: Dec. 12, 2006 -  [H.R. 5103]>>

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORMER KONNAROCK LUTHERAN GIRLS 
                              SCHOOL, JEFFERSON NATIONAL FOREST, 
                              SMYTH COUNTY, VIRGINIA.

    (a) Conveyance <<NOTE: Evangelical Lutheran Coalition for Mission in 
Appalachia.>> Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convey, 
without consideration, to the Evangelical Lutheran Coalition for Mission 
in Appalachia (in this section referred to as the ``recipient'') all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
real property in the Mount Rogers National Recreation Area, Smyth 
County, Virginia, located in the vicinity of the junction of Virginia 
Routes 600 and 603, consisting of not more than six acres, and 
containing the former Konnarock Lutheran Girls School and its 
outbuildings, as depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Area for New 
Legislation or Sale-Konnarock School-Being a Portion of USA Tract J-
935''.

    (b) Condition of Conveyance.--The conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the condition that the recipient accept the real 
property described in such subsection in its condition at the time of 
the conveyance, commonly known as conveyance ``as is''.
    (c) Description of Property.--Subject to the acreage limitation 
specified in subsection (a), the exact acreage and legal description of 
the real property to be conveyed under such subsection shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the recipient.
    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with

[[Page 120 STAT. 2691]]

the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

    Approved December 12, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5103:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            Sept. 26, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 16, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>
 