[109th Congress Public Law 131]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ131.109]

[[Page 2565]]

  YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK PAYMENTS, RANCHO CORRAL DE TIERRA GOLDEN GATE 
NATIONAL RECREATION AREA, AND REDWOOD NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS

[[Page 119 STAT. 2566]]

Public Law 109-131
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to provide supplemental 
 funding and other services that are necessary to assist certain local 
  school districts in the State of California in providing educational 
services for students attending schools located within Yosemite National 
     Park, to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to adjust the 
 boundaries of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, to adjust the 
           boundaries of Redwood National Park, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 20, 2005 -  [S. 136]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Table of contents.

           TITLE I--YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK AUTHORIZED PAYMENTS

Sec. 101. Payments for educational services.
Sec. 102. Authorization for park facilities to be located outside the 
           boundaries of Yosemite National Park.

 TITLE II--RANCHO CORRAL DE TIERRA GOLDEN GATE NATIONAL RECREATION AREA 
                           BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Golden Gate National Recreation Area, California.

          TITLE III--REDWOOD NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Redwood National Park boundary adjustment.

           TITLE I--YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK AUTHORIZED PAYMENTS

SEC. 101. PAYMENTS FOR EDUCATIONAL SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--(1) For fiscal years 2006 through 2009, the 
Secretary of the Interior may provide funds to the Bass Lake Joint Union 
Elementary School District and the Mariposa Unified School District in 
the State of California for educational services to students--
            (A) who are dependents of persons engaged in the 
        administration, operation, and maintenance of Yosemite National 
        Park; or
            (B) who live within or near the park upon real property 
        owned by the United States.

    (2) The Secretary's authority to make payments under this section 
shall terminate if the State of California or local education agencies 
do not continue to provide funding to the schools referred

[[Page 119 STAT. 2567]]

to in subsection (a) at per student levels that are no less than the 
amount provided in fiscal year 2005.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Payments made under this section 
shall only be used to pay public employees for educational services 
provided in accordance with subsection (a). Payments may not be used for 
construction, construction contracts, or major capital improvements.
    (c) Limitation on Amount of Funds.--Payments made under this section 
shall not exceed the lesser of--
            (1) $400,000 in any fiscal year; or
            (2) the amount necessary to provide students described in 
        subsection (a) with educational services that are normally 
        provided and generally available to students who attend public 
        schools elsewhere in the State of California.

    (d) Source of Payments.--(1) Except as otherwise provided in this 
subsection, the Secretary may use funds available to the National Park 
Service from appropriations, donations, or fees.
    (2) Funds from the following sources shall not be used to make 
payments under this section:
            (A) Any law authorizing the collection or expenditure of 
        entrance or use fees at units of the National Park System, 
        including--
                    (i) the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 
                (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 et seq.); and
                    (ii) the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act 
                (16 U.S.C. 6801 et seq.).
            (B) Any unexpended receipts collected through--
                    (i) the recreational fee demonstration program 
                established under section 315 of the Department of the 
                Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 
                (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a note; Public Law 104-134); or
                    (ii) the national park passport program established 
                under section 602 of the National Parks Omnibus 
                Management Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 5992).
            (C) Emergency appropriations for flood recovery at Yosemite 
        National Park.

    (3)(A) The Secretary may use an authorized funding source to make 
payments under this section only if the funding available to Yosemite 
National Park from such source (after subtracting any payments to the 
school districts authorized under this section) is greater than or equal 
to the amount made available to the park for the prior fiscal year, or 
in fiscal year 2005, whichever is greater.
    (B) It is the sense of Congress that any payments made under this 
section should not result in a reduction of funds to Yosemite National 
Park from any specific funding source, and that with respect to 
appropriated funds, funding levels should reflect annual increases in 
the park's operating base funds that are generally made to units of the 
National Park System.

SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION FOR PARK FACILITIES TO BE LOCATED OUTSIDE THE 
            BOUNDARIES OF YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK.

    (a) Funding Authority for Transportation Systems and External 
Facilities.--Section 814(c) of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands 
Management Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 346e) is amended--

[[Page 119 STAT. 2568]]

            (1) in the heading by inserting ``AND YOSEMITE NATIONAL 
        PARK'' after ``ZION NATIONAL PARK'';
            (2) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``and Yosemite National Park'' 
                after ``Zion National Park''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``for transportation systems or'' 
                after ``appropriated funds''; and
            (3) in the second sentence by striking ``facilities'' and 
        inserting ``systems or facilities''.

    (b) Clarifying Amendment for Transportation Fee Authority.--Section 
501 of the National Parks Omnibus Management Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 
5981) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``service contract'' 
and inserting ``service contract, cooperative agreement, or other 
contractual arrangement''.

 TITLE II--RANCHO <<NOTE: Rancho Corral de Tierra Golden Gate National 
Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act.>> CORRAL DE TIERRA GOLDEN GATE 
NATIONAL RECREATION AREA BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Rancho Corral de Tierra Golden Gate 
National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act''.

SEC. 202. GOLDEN GATE NATIONAL RECREATION AREA, CALIFORNIA.

    Section 2(a) of Public Law 92-589 (16 U.S.C. 460bb-1(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The recreation area shall comprise'' and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) Initial lands.--The recreation area shall comprise''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``The following additional lands are also'' 
        and all that follows through the period at the end of the 
        subsection and inserting the following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Additional lands.--In addition to the lands described 
        in paragraph (1), the recreation area shall include the 
        following:
                    ``(A) The parcels numbered by the Assessor of Marin 
                County, California, 119-040-04, 119-040-05, 119-040-18, 
                166-202-03, 166-010-06, 166-010-07, 166-010-24, 166-010-
                25, 119-240-19, 166-010-10, 166-010-22, 119-240-03, 119-
                240-51, 119-240-52, 119-240-54, 166-010-12, 166-010-13, 
                and 119-235-10.
                    ``(B) Lands and waters in San Mateo County generally 
                depicted on the map entitled `Sweeney Ridge Addition, 
                Golden Gate National Recreation Area', numbered NRA GG-
                80,000-A, and dated May 1980.
                    ``(C) Lands acquired under the Golden Gate National 
                Recreation Area Addition Act of 1992 (16 U.S.C. 460bb-1 
                note; Public Law 102-299).
                    ``(D) Lands generally depicted on the map entitled 
                `Additions to Golden Gate National Recreation Area', 
                numbered NPS-80-076, and dated July 2000/PWR-PLRPC.
                    ``(E) Lands generally depicted on the map entitled 
                `Rancho Corral de Tierra Additions to the Golden Gate

[[Page 119 STAT. 2569]]

                National Recreation Area', numbered NPS-80,079E, and 
                dated March 2004.
            ``(3) Acquisition limitation.--The Secretary may acquire 
        land described in paragraph (2)(E) only from a willing 
        seller.''.

TITLE III--REDWOOD <<NOTE: Redwood National Park Boundary Adjustment Act 
of 2005.>> NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

SEC. 301. <<NOTE: 16 USC 79a note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Redwood National Park Boundary 
Adjustment Act of 2005''.

SEC. 302. REDWOOD NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    Section 2(a) of the Act of Public Law 90-545 (16 U.S.C. 79b(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``(a) The area'' and 
        all that follows through the period at the end and inserting the 
        following: ``(a)(1) The Redwood National Park consists of the 
        land generally depicted on the map entitled `Redwood National 
        Park, Revised Boundary', numbered 167/60502, and dated February, 
        2003.'';
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) (as designated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:

    ``(2) The map referred to in paragraph (1) shall be--
            ``(A) on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the National Park Service; and
            ``(B) provided by the Secretary of the Interior to the 
        appropriate officers of Del Norte and Humboldt Counties, 
        California.''; and
            (3) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(3) The Secretary;'' and
                    (B) by striking ``one hundred and six thousand 
                acres'' and inserting ``133,000 acres''.

    Approved December 20, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 136:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-63 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            July 26, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 6, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>