[109th Congress Public Law 453]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ453.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 3367]]

Public Law 109-453
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend the National Historic Preservation Act to provide appropriation 
  authorization and improve the operations of the Advisory Council on 
      Historic Preservation. <<NOTE: Dec. 22, 2006 -  [S. 1378]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: National Historic 
Preservation Act Amendments Act of 2006. 16 USC 470 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. NATIONAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National Historic 
Preservation Act Amendments Act of 2006''.
    (b) Reference.--A reference in this Act to ``the Act'' shall be a 
reference to the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et 
seq.).
    (c) Historic Preservation Fund.--Section 108 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 
470h) is amended by striking ``2005'' and inserting ``2015''.
    (d) Membership of Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.--
            (1) Additional members.--Section 201(a)(4) of the Act (16 
        U.S.C. 470i(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``four'' and inserting 
        ``seven''.
            (2) Allowing designee for governor member.--Section 201(b) 
        of the Act (16 U.S.C. 470i(b)) is amended by striking ``(5) 
        and''.
            (3) Quorum.--Section 201(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 470i(f)) 
        is amended by striking ``Nine'' and inserting ``12''.

    (e) Financial and Administrative Services for the Advisory Council 
on Historic Preservation.--Section 205(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 470m(f)) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Financial and administrative services (including those related 
to budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, personnel and 
procurement) shall be provided the Council by the Department of the 
Interior or, at the discretion of the Council, such other agency or 
private entity that reaches an agreement with the Council, for which 
payments shall be made in advance or by reimbursement from funds of the 
Council in such amounts as may be agreed upon by the Chairman of the 
Council and the head of the agency or, in the case of a private entity, 
the authorized representative of the private entity that will provide 
the services. When <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  a Federal agency affords 
such services, the regulations of that agency for the collection of 
indebtedness of personnel resulting from erroneous payments (5 U.S.C. 
5514(b)) shall apply to the collection of erroneous payments made to or 
on behalf of a Council employee and regulations of that agency for the 
administrative control of funds (31 U.S.C. 1513(d), 1514) shall apply to 
appropriations of the Council. The Council shall not be required to 
prescribe such regulations.''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 3368]]

    (f) Appropriation Authorization of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation.--Section 212(a) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 470t(a)) is amended 
by striking ``for purposes of this title not to exceed $4,000,000 for 
each fiscal year 1997 through 2005'' and inserting ``such amounts as may 
be necessary to carry out this title''.
    (g) Effectiveness of Federal Grant and Assistance Programs in 
Meeting the Purposes and Policies of the National Historic Preservation 
Act.--Title II of the Act is amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:

``SEC. 216. <<NOTE: 16 USC 470v-2.>> EFFECTIVENESS OF FEDERAL GRANT AND 
            ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Cooperative Agreements.--The Council may enter into a 
cooperative agreement with any Federal agency that administers a grant 
or assistance program for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of 
the administration of such program in meeting the purposes and policies 
of this Act. Such cooperative agreements may include provisions that 
modify the selection criteria for a grant or assistance program to 
further the purposes of this Act or that allow the Council to 
participate in the selection of recipients, if such provisions are not 
inconsistent with the grant or assistance program's statutory 
authorization and purpose.
    ``(b) Review of Grant and Assistance Programs.--The Council may--
            ``(1) review the operation of any Federal grant or 
        assistance program to evaluate the effectiveness of such program 
        in meeting the purposes and policies of this Act;
            ``(2) make recommendations to the head of any Federal agency 
        that administers such program to further the consistency of the 
        program with the purposes and policies of the Act and to improve 
        its effectiveness in carrying out those purposes and policies; 
        and
            ``(3) make recommendations to the President and Congress 
        regarding the effectiveness of Federal grant and assistance 
        programs in meeting the purposes and policies of this Act, 
        including recommendations with regard to appropriate funding 
        levels.''.

    Approved December 22, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1378:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-235 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            Sept. 29, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>