[109th Congress Public Law 454]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ454.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 3369]]

Public Law 109-454
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the conveyance of certain Federal land in the city of 
          Yuma, Arizona. <<NOTE: Dec. 22, 2006 -  [S. 1529]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: City of Yuma Improvement 
Act.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``City of Yuma Improvement Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Yuma, 
        Arizona.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        Bureau of Reclamation land depicted on the map and more 
        particularly described as--
                    (A) parcels 2 and 3 of tract 1;
                    (B) a portion of parcel 110-73-019;
                    (C) the old Arizona Department of Transportation 
                weigh station;
                    (D) portions of blocks 52, 53, 54, and 55;
                    (E) the future drying bed location; and
                    (F) the future Arizona Welcome Center.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        Yuma Proposed Property Ownership'' and dated July 25, 2005.
            (4) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the non-Federal land depicted on the map and generally known as 
        the ``Railroad Parcels''.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL LAND AND NON-FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, easements, and 
rights-of-way, and in accordance with this Act, the Secretary shall 
convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
Federal land to the City in exchange for the non-Federal land.
    (b) Title to Non-Federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--On receipt of a deed conveying to the 
        United States fee simple title to the non-Federal land that 
        meets the requirements under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
        record a deed from the United States that conveys to the City 
        fee simple title to the Federal land.
            (2) Requirements.--Title to the non-Federal land shall--

[[Page 120 STAT. 3370]]

                    (A) conform with the regulations and title approval 
                standards of the Attorney General that are applicable to 
                Federal land acquisitions; and
                    (B) include all valid existing rights, easements, 
                and rights-of-way.

    (c) Administration of Acquired Land.--The Secretary, acting through 
the Commissioner of Reclamation, shall administer the non-Federal land 
acquired by the Secretary.
    (d) Release From Liability.--Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> on 
the date of conveyance to the City of the parcel of Federal land under 
subsection (a), the United States shall not be liable for damages 
arising out of any act, omission, or occurrence relating to the Federal 
land and facilities conveyed, but shall continue to be liable for 
damages caused by acts of negligence committed by the United States or 
by any employee or agent of the United States before the date of 
conveyance, consistent with chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.

    (e) Administrative Costs.--All administrative costs relating to the 
conveyance of the Federal land and non-Federal land under subsection (a) 
shall be paid by the City to the United States.
    (f) Valuation, Appraisals, and Equalization.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the Federal and the non-
        Federal land--
                    (A) shall be equal, as determined by appraisals 
                conducted in accordance with paragraph (2); or
                    (B) if not equal, shall be equalized in accordance 
                with paragraph (3).
            (2) Appraisals.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal land and non-Federal 
                land shall be appraised by an independent appraiser 
                selected by the Secretary.
                    (B) Requirements.--An appraisal conducted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be conducted in accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisition; and
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice.
                    (C) Equalization of values.--
                          (i) In general.--If the value of the Federal 
                      land and the non-Federal land is not equal, the 
                      value may be equalized by--
                                    (I) the Secretary making a cash 
                                equalization payment to the City;
                                    (II) the City making a cash 
                                equalization payment to the Secretary; 
                                or
                                    (III) reducing the acreage of the 
                                Federal land or non-Federal land, as 
                                appropriate.
                          (ii) Disposition of proceeds.--Any cash 
                      equalization payments received by the Secretary 
                      under clause (i)(II) shall be deposited in the 
                      general fund of the Treasury.

SEC. 4. CONVEYANCE OF UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE LAND TO 
            THE CITY OF YUMA.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
shall convey to the City by quitclaim deed, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the parcel of United States

[[Page 120 STAT. 3371]]

Fish and Wildlife Service land located at 356 West First Street, Yuma, 
Arizona.
    (b) Consideration.--In exchange for the conveyance of land under 
subsection (a), the City shall pay to the Secretary consideration in an 
amount that reflects the fair market value of the land conveyed to the 
City under that subsection, as determined by an appraisal prepared in 
accordance with--
            (1) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisitions; and
            (2) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
        Practice.

    (c) Administrative Costs.--Any administrative costs relating to the 
conveyance of land under subsection (a) shall be paid by the City to the 
United States.
    (d) Disposition and Use of Proceeds.--Amounts paid to the Secretary 
under subsection (b) shall be available to the Secretary, without 
further appropriation and until expended, to pay--
            (1) the administrative costs of the conveyance under 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) the costs of constructing the Kofa National Wildlife 
        Refuge headquarters and visitor center in Yuma, Arizona.

    Approved December 22, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1529:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-300 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            Dec. 7, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>