[109th Congress Public Law 88]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ088.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 2061]]

Public Law 109-88
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for community disaster loans. <<NOTE: Oct. 7, 2005 -  [S. 
                                1858]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Community 
Disaster Loan Act of 2005.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Community Disaster Loan Act of 
2005''.

SEC. 2. DISASTER LOANS.

    (a) Essential Services.--Of the amounts provided in Public Law 109-
62 for ``Disaster Relief'', up to $750,000,000 may be transferred to the 
Disaster Assistance Direct Loan Program for the cost of direct loans as 
authorized under section 417 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5184) to be used to assist local 
governments in providing essential services: Provided, That such 
transfer may be made to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans not to exceed $1,000,000,000 under section 417 of 
the Stafford Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 417(b) 
of the Stafford Act, the amount of any such loan issued pursuant to this 
section may exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 417(c)(1) of the Stafford Act, such loans may not be canceled: 
Provided further, That the cost of modifying such loans shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
661a).
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Of the amounts provided in Public Law 
109-62 for ``Disaster Relief'', up to $1,000,000 may be transferred to 
the Disaster Assistance Direct Loan Program

[[Page 119 STAT. 2062]]

for administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program, as 
authorized by section 417 of the Stafford Act.

    Approved October 7, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1858:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            Oct. 7, considered and passed Senate and House.

                                  <all>