[109th Congress Public Law 134]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ134.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 2575]]

Public Law 109-134
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To authorize the transfer of naval vessels to certain foreign 
            recipients. <<NOTE: Dec. 20, 2005 -  [S. 1886]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Naval Vessels Transfer Act 
of 2005.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Naval Vessels Transfer Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: President.>> TRANSFERS BY GRANT.

    The President is authorized to transfer vessels to foreign 
recipients on a grant basis under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j), as follows:
            (1) Greece.--To the Government of Greece, the OSPREY class 
        minehunter coastal ship PELICAN (MHC-53).
            (2) Egypt.--To the Government of Egypt, the OSPREY class 
        minehunter coastal ships CARDINAL (MHC-60) and RAVEN (MHC-61).
            (3) Pakistan.--To the Government of Pakistan, the SPRUANCE 
        class destroyer ship FLETCHER (DD-992).
            (4) Turkey.--To the Government of Turkey, the SPRUANCE class 
        destroyer ship CUSHING (DD-985).

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: President.>> TRANSFERS BY SALE.

    The President is authorized to transfer vessels to foreign 
recipients on a sale basis under section 21 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2761), as follows:
            (1) India.--To the Government of India, the AUSTIN class 
        amphibious transport dock ship TRENTON (LPD-14).
            (2) Greece.--To the Government of Greece, the OSPREY class 
        minehunter coastal ship HERON (MHC-52).
            (3) Turkey.--To the Government of Turkey, the SPRUANCE class 
        destroyer ship O'BANNON (DD-987).

SEC. 4. GRANTS NOT COUNTED IN ANNUAL TOTAL OF TRANSFERRED EXCESS DEFENSE 
            ARTICLES.

    The value of a vessel transferred to another country on a grant 
basis pursuant to authority provided by section 2 shall not be counted 
against the aggregate value of excess defense articles transferred to 
countries in any fiscal year under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961.

SEC. 5. COSTS OF CERTAIN TRANSFERS.

    Notwithstanding section 516(e)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j(e)(1)), any expense incurred by the

[[Page 119 STAT. 2576]]

United States in connection with a transfer authorized under section 2 
shall be charged to the recipient.

SEC. 6. <<NOTE: President.>> REPAIR AND REFURBISHMENT IN UNITED STATES 
            SHIPYARDS.

    To the maximum extent practicable, the President shall require, as a 
condition of the transfer of a vessel under this section, that the 
country to which the vessel is transferred have such repair or 
refurbishment of the vessel as is needed before the vessel joins the 
naval forces of that country be performed at a shipyard located in the 
United States, including a United States Navy shipyard.

SEC. 7. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority to transfer a vessel under this section shall expire 
at the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

    Approved December 20, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1886:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            Oct. 18, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 6, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>