[109th Congress Public Law 152]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ152.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 2887]]

Public Law 109-152
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the American Battle Monuments Commission to establish in 
         the State of Louisiana a memorial to honor the Buffalo 
             Soldiers. <<NOTE: Dec. 30, 2005 -  [S. 205]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Buffalo Soldiers 
Commemoration Act of 2005. 16 USC 431 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Buffalo Soldiers Commemoration Act of 
2005''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF BUFFALO SOLDIERS MEMORIAL.

    (a) Authorization.--The American Battle Monuments Commission is 
authorized to establish a memorial to honor the Buffalo Soldiers in or 
around the City of New Orleans on land donated for such purpose or on 
Federal land with the consent of the appropriate land manager.
    (b) Contributions.--The Commission shall solicit and accept 
contributions for the construction and maintenance of the memorial.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Commission may enter into a 
cooperative agreement with a private or public entity for the purpose of 
fundraising for the construction and maintenance of the memorial.
    (d) Maintenance Agreement.--Prior to beginning construction of the 
memorial, the Commission shall enter into an agreement with an 
appropriate public or private entity to provide for the permanent 
maintenance of the memorial and shall have sufficient funds, or 
assurance that it will receive sufficient funds, to complete the 
memorial.

SEC. 3. BUFFALO SOLDIERS MEMORIAL ACCOUNT.

    (a) Establishment.--The Commission shall maintain an escrow account 
(``account'') to pay expenses incurred in constructing the memorial.
    (b) Deposits Into the Account.--The Commission shall deposit into 
the account any principal and interest by the United States that the 
Chairman determines has a suitable maturity.
    (c) Use of Account.--Amounts in the account, including proceeds of 
any investments, may be used to pay expenses incurred in establishing 
the memorial. After construction of the memorial amounts in the account 
shall be transferred by the Commission to the entity providing for 
permanent maintenance of the memorial under such terms and conditions as 
the Commission determines will ensure the proper use and accounting of 
the amounts.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2888]]

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.

    Approved December 30, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 205:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-24 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            July 26, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 18, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>