[109th Congress Public Law 133]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ133.109]

[[Page 119 STAT. 2573]]

Public Law 109-133
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To amend the Act of June 7, 1924, to provide for the exercise of 
       criminal jurisdiction. <<NOTE: Dec. 20, 2005 -  [S. 279]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Native Americans. New 
Mexico.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. INDIAN PUEBLO LAND ACT AMENDMENTS.

    The Act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 636, chapter 331), is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 20. <<NOTE: 25 USC 331 note.>> CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.

    ``(a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided by Congress, 
jurisdiction over offenses committed anywhere within the exterior 
boundaries of any grant from a prior sovereign, as confirmed by Congress 
or the Court of Private Land Claims to a Pueblo Indian tribe of New 
Mexico, shall be as provided in this section.
    ``(b) Jurisdiction of the Pueblo.--The Pueblo has jurisdiction, as 
an act of the Pueblos' inherent power as an Indian tribe, over any 
offense committed by a member of the Pueblo or an Indian as defined in 
title 25, sections 1301(2) and 1301(4), or by any other Indian-owned 
entity.
    ``(c) Jurisdiction of the United States.--The United States has 
jurisdiction over any offense described in chapter 53 of title 18, 
United States Code, committed by or against an Indian as defined in 
title 25, sections 1301(2) and 1301(4) or any Indian-owned entity, or 
that involves any Indian property or interest.
    ``(d) Jurisdiction of the State of New Mexico.--The State of New 
Mexico shall have jurisdiction over any offense committed by a person 
who is not a member of a Pueblo or an Indian as

[[Page 119 STAT. 2574]]

defined in title 25, sections 1301(2) and 1301(4), which offense is not 
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.''.

    Approved December 20, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 279:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            July 26, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 6, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>