[109th Congress Public Law 265]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ265.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 668]]

Public Law 109-265
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey the Newlands Project 
    Headquarters and Maintenance Yard Facility to the Truckee-Carson 
Irrigation District in the State of Nevada. <<NOTE: Aug. 3, 2006 -  [S. 
                                 310]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Newlands Project 
Headquarters and Maintenance Yard Facility Transfer Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Newlands Project Headquarters and 
Maintenance Yard Facility Transfer Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means the memorandum 
        of agreement between the District and the Secretary identified 
        as Contract No. 3-LC-20-805 and dated June 9, 2003.
            (2) District.--The term ``District'' means the Truckee-
        Carson Irrigation District in the State of Nevada.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF NEWLANDS PROJECT HEADQUARTERS AND MAINTENANCE YARD 
            FACILITY.

    (a) Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and in accordance with the Agreement and 
        any applicable laws, the Secretary shall convey to the District 
        all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        the real property described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Description of property.--The real property referred to 
        in paragraph (1) is the real property within the Newlands 
        Projects, Nevada, that is--
                    (A) known as ``2666 Harrigan Road, Fallon, Nevada''; 
                and
                    (B) identified for disposition on the map entitled 
                ``Newlands Project Headquarters and Maintenance Yard 
                Facility''.

    (b) Consideration.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
amounts received by the United States for the lease or sale of Newlands 
Project land comprising the Fallon Freight Yard shall, for purposes of 
this section, be treated as consideration for the real property conveyed 
under subsection (a).

[[Page 120 STAT. 669]]

    (c) Report.--If the Secretary has not completed the conveyance under 
subsection (a) within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that--I22    (1) 
explains the reasons why the conveyance has not been completed; and
            (2) specifies the date by which the conveyance will be 
        completed.

    (d) Environmental Review, Remediation, and Removal.--In accordance 
with the Agreement, the Secretary may not convey the real property under 
subsection (a) until--
            (1) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
        4321 et seq.) and any applicable requirements relating to 
        cultural resources have been complied with for the real property 
        to be conveyed under subsection (a); and
            (2) any required environmental site assessment, remediation, 
        or removal has been completed with respect to the real property 
        to be conveyed under subsection (a).

    (e) Liability.--The United States shall not be liable for damages of 
any kind arising out of any act, omission by, or occurrence relating to, 
the District or any employee, agent, or contractor of the District with 
respect to the real property conveyed under subsection (a) that occurs 
before, on, or after the date of the conveyance.

    Approved August 3, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 310 (H.R. 540):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-188 (Comm. and Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 151 (2005):
                                    Dec. 16, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 152 (2006):
                                    July 24, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>