[109th Congress Public Law 271]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ271.109]

[[Page 749]]

VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 
                                  2005 
                          TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

[[Page 120 STAT. 750]]

Public Law 109-271
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To make technical corrections to the Violence Against Women and 
  Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005. <<NOTE: Aug. 12, 
                          2006 -  [S. 3693]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13701 note.>> UNIVERSAL GRANT CONDITIONS AND 
            DEFINITIONS OF THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT OF 2005.

    (a) Short Title.--Section 1 of the Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before ``This''; and
            (2) adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Separate Short Titles.--Section 3 and titles I through IX of 
this Act may be cited as the `Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act 
of 2005'. Title XI of this Act may be cited as the `Department of 
Justice Appropriations Authorization Act of 2005'.''.
    (b) Clarify Effective Dates.--The Violence Against Women Act and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) 
is amended by adding after section 3 the following new section:

``SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3793 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE OF SPECIFIC 
            SECTIONS.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or any other law, 
sections 101, 102 (except the amendment to section 2101(d) of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 included in that 
section), 103, 121, 203, 204, 205, 304, 306, 602, 906, and 907 of this 
Act shall not take effect until the beginning of fiscal year 2007.''.
    (c) Ensure Comprehensive Definitional Section.--
            (1) Crimes on campuses.--Section 304 of the Violence Against 
        Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
        (Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 42 USC 14045b.>>  is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

    ``(g) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Definitions and Grant Conditions.--In 
this section the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of 
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 shall apply.''.
            (2) Outreach to underserved populations.--Section 120 of the 
        Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization 
        Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 42 USC 14045.>>  is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(i) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Definitions and Grant Conditions.--In 
this section the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of 
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 shall apply.''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 751]]

            (3) Cultural services.--Section 121 of the Violence Against 
        Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
        (Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 42 USC 14045a.>>  is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

    ``(h) Definitions and Grant Conditions.--In this section the 
definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of the Violence 
Against Women Act of 1994 shall apply.''.
    (d) Correct Definition of Sexual Assault.--Section 40002(a)(23) of 
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, as added by section 3 of the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162), <<NOTE: 42 USC 13925.>>  is amended by 
striking ``prescribed'' and inserting ``proscribed''.

    (e) Tribal Definitions.--Section 40002(a) of the Violence Against 
Women Act of 1994, as added by section 3 of the Violence Against Women 
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-
162), <<NOTE: 42 USC 13925.>>  is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Alaskan'' and inserting 
        ``Alaska Native'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (31) through (36) as 
        paragraphs (32) through (37), respectively; and
            (3) by adding after paragraph (30) the following:
            ``(31) Tribal nonprofit organization.--The term `tribal 
        nonprofit organization' means--
                    ``(A) a victim services provider that has as its 
                primary purpose to assist Native victims of domestic 
                violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking; 
                and
                    ``(B) staff and leadership of the organization must 
                include persons with a demonstrated history of assisting 
                American Indian or Alaska Native victims of domestic 
                violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or 
                stalking.''.

    (f) Clarify Matching Provision in the Universal Grant Condition.--
Section 40002(b) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, as added by 
section 3 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162), <<NOTE: 42 USC 
13925.>>  is amended by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(1) Match.--No matching funds shall be required for any 
        grant or subgrant made under this Act for--
                    ``(A) any tribe, territory, or victim service 
                provider; or
                    ``(B) any other entity, including a State, that--
                          ``(i) petitions for a waiver of any match 
                      condition imposed by the Attorney General or the 
                      Secretaries of Health and Human Services or 
                      Housing and Urban Development; and
                          ``(ii) whose petition for waiver is determined 
                      by the Attorney General or the Secretaries of 
                      Health and Human Services or Housing and Urban 
                      Development to have adequately demonstrated the 
                      financial need of the petitioning entity.''.

SEC. 2. TITLE I--LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOLS.

    (a) Duplicate Provision.--Title I of the Violence Against Women Act 
of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) is amended by striking section <<NOTE: 42 
USC 13941.>>  108.

[[Page 120 STAT. 752]]

    (b) Authorization Period.--Section 1167 of the Violence Against 
Women Act of 2005 <<NOTE: 42 USC 13941.>>  is amended by striking ``2006 
through 2010'' and inserting ``2007 through 2011''.

    (c) Definition of Spouse of Intimate Partner.--Section 2266(7)(A) of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking clause (ii) and 
inserting the following:
                          ``(ii) section 2261A--
                                    ``(I) a spouse or former spouse of 
                                the target of the stalking, a person who 
                                shares a child in common with the target 
                                of the stalking, and a person who 
                                cohabits or has cohabited as a spouse 
                                with the target of the stalking; or
                                    ``(II) a person who is or has been 
                                in a social relationship of a romantic 
                                or intimate nature with the target of 
                                the stalking, as determined by the 
                                length of the relationship, the type of 
                                the relationship, and the frequency of 
                                interaction between the persons involved 
                                in the relationship.''.

    (d) Strike Repeated Sections.--The Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 is amended by striking 
sections 1134 and <<NOTE: 20 USC 1152; 42 USC 3796gg-1, 3796gg-3, 10420, 
13975, 14039. 42 USC 13925.>>  1135.

    (e) Conditions on Technical Assistance.--Section 40002(b)(11) of the 
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 is amended by inserting before ``If 
there'' the following: ``Of the total amounts appropriated under this 
title, not less than 3 percent and up to 8 percent, unless otherwise 
noted, shall be available for providing training and technical 
assistance relating to the purposes of this title to improve the 
capacity of the grantees, subgrantees, and other entities.''.
    (f) Remove the Technical Assistance Provision in STOP and Grants To 
Encourage Arrest.--The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968 is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796gg-1.>> in section 2007, by striking 
        subsection (i), as added by section 101 of the Violence Against 
        Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005; and
            (2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796hh-5.>> by striking section 2106, as 
        added by section 102 of the Violence Against Women and 
        Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005.

    (g) Correct STOP Grant Allocation.--Section 2007 (b)(2) of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1), 
as amended by section 101 of the Violence Against Women and Department 
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is amended by striking ``and the 
coalitions for combined Territories of the United States'' and inserting 
``the coalition for Guam, the coalition for American Samoa, the 
coalition for the United States Virgin Islands, and the coalition for 
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''.
    (h) Underserved Populations Report.--Section 120(g) of the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 <<NOTE: 42 USC 14045.>>  is amended by striking ``, every 18 
months,''.

    (i) Correct Definition of Dating Partner.--Section 2266(10) of title 
18, United States Code, as amended by section 116 of the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is 
further amended by striking ``and the existence of such a relationship'' 
and inserting ``. The existence of such a relationship is''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 753]]

    (j) Alter Compliance Time for Forensic Exam Certification.--Section 
2010(d) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 3796gg-4(d)) as added by section 101 of the Violence Against 
Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is amended 
by--
            (1) striking ``Nothing'' and inserting ``(1) In general.--
        ''; and
            (2) inserting at the end the following:
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Compliance period.--States, 
        territories, and Indian tribal governments shall have 3 years 
        from the date of enactment of the Violence Against Women and 
        Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 to come into 
        compliance with this subsection.''.

    (k) Correct Underserved Populations Grant Program.--Section 121 of 
the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act 
of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 42 USC 14045a.>>  is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting at the end the 
        following: ``The requirements of the grant programs identified 
        in paragraph (2) shall not apply to this new grant program.''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2) by striking the period and 
        inserting ``, including--
                    ``(A) working with State and local governments and 
                social service agencies to develop and enhance effective 
                strategies to provide culturally and linguistically 
                specific services to victims of domestic violence, 
                dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
                    ``(B) increasing communities' capacity to provide 
                culturally and linguistically specific resources and 
                support for victims of domestic violence, dating 
                violence, sexual assault, and stalking crimes and their 
                families;
                    ``(C) strengthening criminal justice interventions, 
                by providing training for law enforcement, prosecution, 
                courts, probation, and correctional facilities on 
                culturally and linguistically specific responses to 
                domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and 
                stalking;
                    ``(D) enhancing traditional services to victims of 
                domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and 
                stalking through the leadership of culturally and 
                linguistically specific programs offering services to 
                victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
                assault, and stalking;
                    ``(E) working in cooperation with the community to 
                develop education and prevention strategies highlighting 
                culturally and linguistically specific issues and 
                resources regarding victims of domestic violence, dating 
                violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
                    ``(F) providing culturally and linguistically 
                specific programs for children exposed to domestic 
                violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
                    ``(G) providing culturally and linguistically 
                specific resources and services that address the safety, 
                economic, housing, and workplace needs of victims of 
                domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or 
                stalking, including emergency assistance; or

[[Page 120 STAT. 754]]

                    ``(H) examining the dynamics of culture and its 
                impact on victimization and healing.''.

    (l) Fix Allocation Issue in STOP Grants.--Subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
of section 2007(c)(3) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(3) (A) and (B)) are amended 
to read as follows:
                    ``(A) not less than 25 percent shall be allocated 
                for law enforcement and not less than 25 percent shall 
                be allocated for prosecutors;
                    ``(B) not less than 30 percent shall be allocated 
                for victims services of which at least 10 percent shall 
                be distributed to culturally specific community-based 
                organizations; and''.

    (m) Correct GAO Study.--Section 119(a) of the Violence Against Women 
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-
162) <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2989.>> is amended by striking ``of domestic 
violence.'' and inserting ``of these respective crimes.''.

    (n) Protection Order Correction.--Section 106(c) of the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 18 USC 2265.>> is amended by striking ``the 
registration or filing of a protection order'' and inserting ``the 
registration, filing of a petition for, or issuance of a protection 
order, restraining order or injunction''.

SEC. 3. TITLE II--IMPROVED SERVICES.

    (a) Sexual Assault Services Into VAWA.--Section 202 of the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796gg-9.>> is repealed.

    (b) Sexual Assault Services Program.--The Violence Against Women Act 
of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

                  ``Subtitle P--Sexual Assault Services

``SEC. 41601. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14043g.>> SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            ``(1) to assist States, Indian tribes, and territories in 
        providing intervention, advocacy, accompaniment, support 
        services, and related assistance for--
                    ``(A) adult, youth, and child victims of sexual 
                assault;
                    ``(B) family and household members of such victims; 
                and
                    ``(C) those collaterally affected by the 
                victimization, except for the perpetrator of such 
                victimization; and
            ``(2) to provide for technical assistance and training 
        relating to sexual assault to--
                    ``(A) Federal, State, tribal, territorial and local 
                governments, law enforcement agencies, and courts;
                    ``(B) professionals working in legal, social 
                service, and health care settings;
                    ``(C) nonprofit organizations;
                    ``(D) faith-based organizations; and
                    ``(E) other individuals and organizations seeking 
                such assistance.

    ``(b) Grants to States and Territories.--

[[Page 120 STAT. 755]]

            ``(1) Grants authorized.--The Attorney General shall award 
        grants to States and territories to support the establishment, 
        maintenance, and expansion of rape crisis centers and other 
        programs and projects to assist those victimized by sexual 
        assault.
            ``(2) Allocation and use of funds.--
                    ``(A) Administrative costs.--Not more than 5 percent 
                of the grant funds received by a State or territory 
                governmental agency under this subsection for any fiscal 
                year may be used for administrative costs.
                    ``(B) Grant funds.--Any funds received by a State or 
                territory under this subsection that are not used for 
                administrative costs shall be used to provide grants to 
                rape crisis centers and other nonprofit, nongovernmental 
                organizations for programs and activities within such 
                State or territory that provide direct intervention and 
                related assistance.
                    ``(C) Intervention and related assistance.--
                Intervention and related assistance under subparagraph 
                (B) may include--
                          ``(i) 24-hour hotline services providing 
                      crisis intervention services and referral;
                          ``(ii) accompaniment and advocacy through 
                      medical, criminal justice, and social support 
                      systems, including medical facilities, police, and 
                      court proceedings;
                          ``(iii) crisis intervention, short-term 
                      individual and group support services, and 
                      comprehensive service coordination and supervision 
                      to assist sexual assault victims and family or 
                      household members;
                          ``(iv) information and referral to assist the 
                      sexual assault victim and family or household 
                      members;
                          ``(v) community-based, linguistically and 
                      culturally specific services and support 
                      mechanisms, including outreach activities for 
                      underserved communities; and
                          ``(vi) the development and distribution of 
                      materials on issues related to the services 
                      described in clauses (i) through (v).
            ``(3) Application.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each eligible entity desiring a 
                grant under this subsection shall submit an application 
                to the Attorney General at such time and in such manner 
                as the Attorney General may reasonably require.
                    ``(B) Contents.--Each application submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                          ``(i) set forth procedures designed to ensure 
                      meaningful involvement of the State or territorial 
                      sexual assault coalition and representatives from 
                      underserved communities in the development of the 
                      application and the implementation of the plans;
                          ``(ii) set forth procedures designed to ensure 
                      an equitable distribution of grants and grant 
                      funds within the State or territory and between 
                      urban and rural areas within such State or 
                      territory;
                          ``(iii) identify the State or territorial 
                      agency that is responsible for the administration 
                      of programs and activities; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 756]]

                          ``(iv) meet other such requirements as the 
                      Attorney General reasonably determines are 
                      necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions 
                      of this section.
            ``(4) Minimum amount.--The Attorney General shall allocate 
        to each State not less than 1.50 percent of the total amount 
        appropriated in a fiscal year for grants under this section, 
        except that the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, 
        Guam, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall each be 
        allocated 0.125 percent of the total appropriations. The 
        remaining funds shall be allotted to each State and each 
        territory in an amount that bears the same ratio to such 
        remaining funds as the population of such State and such 
        territory bears to the population of all the States and the 
        territories. The District of Columbia shall be treated as a 
        territory for purposes of calculating its allocation under the 
        preceding formula.

    ``(c) Grants for Culturally Specific Programs Addressing Sexual 
Assault.--
            ``(1) Grants authorized.--The Attorney General shall award 
        grants to eligible entities to support the establishment, 
        maintenance, and expansion of culturally specific intervention 
        and related assistance for victims of sexual assault.
            ``(2) Eligible entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant 
        under this section, an entity shall--
                    ``(A) be a private nonprofit organization that 
                focuses primarily on culturally specific communities;
                    ``(B) must have documented organizational experience 
                in the area of sexual assault intervention or have 
                entered into a partnership with an organization having 
                such expertise;
                    ``(C) have expertise in the development of 
                community-based, linguistically and culturally specific 
                outreach and intervention services relevant for the 
                specific communities to whom assistance would be 
                provided or have the capacity to link to existing 
                services in the community tailored to the needs of 
                culturally specific populations; and
                    ``(D) have an advisory board or steering committee 
                and staffing which is reflective of the targeted 
                culturally specific community.
            ``(3) Award basis.--The Attorney General shall award grants 
        under this section on a competitive basis.
            ``(4) Distribution.--
                    ``(A) The Attorney General shall not use more than 
                2.5 percent of funds appropriated under this subsection 
                in any year for administration, monitoring, and 
                evaluation of grants made available under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Up to 5 percent of funds appropriated under 
                this subsection in any year shall be available for 
                technical assistance by a national, nonprofit, 
                nongovernmental organization or organizations whose 
                primary focus and expertise is in addressing sexual 
                assault within underserved culturally specific 
                populations.
            ``(5) Term.--The Attorney General shall make grants under 
        this section for a period of no less than 2 fiscal years.
            ``(6) Reporting.--Each entity receiving a grant under this 
        subsection shall submit a report to the Attorney General that 
        describes the activities carried out with such grant funds.

[[Page 120 STAT. 757]]

    ``(d) Grants to State, Territorial, and Tribal Sexual Assault 
Coalitions.--
            ``(1) Grants authorized.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Attorney General shall award 
                grants to State, territorial, and tribal sexual assault 
                coalitions to assist in supporting the establishment, 
                maintenance, and expansion of such coalitions.
                    ``(B) Minimum amount.--Not less than 10 percent of 
                the total amount appropriated to carry out this section 
                shall be used for grants under subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Eligible applicants.--Each of the State, 
                territorial, and tribal sexual assault coalitions.
            ``(2) Use of funds.--Grant funds received under this 
        subsection may be used to--
                    ``(A) work with local sexual assault programs and 
                other providers of direct services to encourage 
                appropriate responses to sexual assault within the 
                State, territory, or tribe;
                    ``(B) work with judicial and law enforcement 
                agencies to encourage appropriate responses to sexual 
                assault cases;
                    ``(C) work with courts, child protective services 
                agencies, and children's advocates to develop 
                appropriate responses to child custody and visitation 
                issues when sexual assault has been determined to be a 
                factor;
                    ``(D) design and conduct public education campaigns;
                    ``(E) plan and monitor the distribution of grants 
                and grant funds to their State, territory, or tribe; or
                    ``(F) collaborate with and inform Federal, State, or 
                local public officials and agencies to develop and 
                implement policies to reduce or eliminate sexual 
                assault.
            ``(3) Allocation and use of funds.--From amounts 
        appropriated for grants under this subsection for each fiscal 
        year--
                    ``(A) not less than 10 percent of the funds shall be 
                available for grants to tribal sexual assault 
                coalitions; and
                    ``(B) the remaining funds shall be available for 
                grants to State and territorial coalitions, and the 
                Attorney General shall allocate an amount equal to \1/
                56\ of the amounts so appropriated to each of those 
                State and territorial coalitions.
            ``(4) Application.--Each eligible entity desiring a grant 
        under this subsection shall submit an application to the 
        Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and containing 
        such information as the Attorney General determines to be 
        essential to carry out the purposes of this section.
            ``(5) First-time applicants.--No entity shall be prohibited 
        from submitting an application under this subsection during any 
        fiscal year for which funds are available under this subsection 
        because such entity has not previously applied or received 
        funding under this subsection.

    ``(e) Grants to Tribes.--
            ``(1) Grants authorized.--The Attorney General may award 
        grants to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and nonprofit 
        tribal organizations for the operation of sexual assault 
        programs or projects in Indian tribal lands and Alaska Native 
        villages to support the establishment, maintenance, and 
        expansion of programs and projects to assist those victimized by 
        sexual assault.

[[Page 120 STAT. 758]]

            ``(2) Allocation and use of funds.--
                    ``(A) Administrative costs.--Not more than 5 percent 
                of the grant funds received by an Indian tribe, tribal 
                organization, and nonprofit tribal organization under 
                this subsection for any fiscal year may be used for 
                administrative costs.
                    ``(B) Grant funds.--Any funds received under this 
                subsection that are not used for administrative costs 
                shall be used to provide grants to tribal organizations 
                and nonprofit tribal organizations for programs and 
                activities within Indian country and Alaskan native 
                villages that provide direct intervention and related 
                assistance.

    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        $50,000,000 to remain available until expended for each of the 
        fiscal years 2007 through 2011 to carry out the provisions of 
        this section.
            ``(2) Allocations.--Of the total amounts appropriated for 
        each fiscal year to carry out this section--
                    ``(A) not more than 2.5 percent shall be used by the 
                Attorney General for evaluation, monitoring, and other 
                administrative costs under this section;
                    ``(B) not more than 2.5 percent shall be used for 
                the provision of technical assistance to grantees and 
                subgrantees under this section;
                    ``(C) not less than 65 percent shall be used for 
                grants to States and territories under subsection (b);
                    ``(D) not less than 10 percent shall be used for 
                making grants to State, territorial, and tribal sexual 
                assault coalitions under subsection (d);
                    ``(E) not less than 10 percent shall be used for 
                grants to tribes under subsection (e); and
                    ``(F) not less than 10 percent shall be used for 
                grants for culturally specific programs addressing 
                sexual assault under subsection (c).''.

SEC. 4. TITLE III--YOUNG VICTIMS.

    (a) Correct Citation in Section 41204.--Section 41204(f)(2) of the 
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043c-3) is amended by 
striking ``(b)(4)(D)'' and inserting ``(b)(4)''.
    (b) Correct Campus Grant Program's Purpose Areas.--Section 304(b)(2) 
of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization 
Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) <<NOTE: 42 USC 14045b.>>  is amended by 
striking the first sentence and inserting ``To develop and implement 
campus policies, protocols, and services that more effectively identify 
and respond to the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
assault and stalking, and to train campus administrators, campus 
security personnel, and personnel serving on campus disciplinary or 
judicial boards on such policies, protocols, and services.''.

    (c) Correction.--In section 758(c)(1)(A) of the Public Health 
Services Act (42 U.S.C. 294h(c)(1)(A)), insert ``experiencing'' after 
``to individuals who are'' and before ``or who have experienced''.
    (d) Campus Reporting Requirement.--Section 304(d)(2)(A) of the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 is amended by striking ``biennial''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 759]]

SEC. 5. TILE VI--HOUSING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Amendments to Collaborative Grant Program.--Section 41404 of the 
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (as added by Public Law 109-162; 119 
Stat. 3033) <<NOTE: 42 USC 14043e-3.>>  is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1) by striking ``of Children'' and 
        inserting ``for Children''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) in the heading, by striking ``(1) In 
                      general.--''; and
                          (ii) by adding at the end ``Such activities, 
                      services, or programs--'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(2) Activities, 
                services, programs.--Such activities, services, or 
                programs described in paragraph (1)'' and inserting 
                ``(1)'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (4), respectively; and
                    (D) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``paragraph (3)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                (2)''.

    (b) Technical Amendments to Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act.--Section 423(a)(8) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(a)(8)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``subsection'' and inserting ``section''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``or `victim 
        service providers' ''.

    (c) Technical Amendment to Violence Against Women Act of 2005.--
Section 606 of the Violence Against Women Act of 2005 (Public Law 104-
162; 119 Stat. 3041) is amended in the heading by striking ``voucher''.
    (d) Selection of Tenants.--Section 8(d)(1)(A) of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(d)(1)(A)) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(A) the selection of tenants shall be the function 
                of the owner, subject to the annual contributions 
                contract between the Secretary and the agency, except 
                that with respect to the certificate and moderate 
                rehabilitation programs only, for the purpose of 
                selecting families to be assisted, the public housing 
                agency may establish local preferences, consistent with 
                the public housing agency plan submitted under section 
                5A (42 U.S.C. 1437c-1) by the public housing agency and 
                that an applicant or participant is or has been a victim 
                of domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking is 
                not an appropriate basis for denial of program 
                assistance or for denial of admission if the applicant 
                otherwise qualifies for assistance or admission;''.

    (e) Technical Amendments to Housing Assistance Program.--Section 8 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(9)(C), by striking clause (ii) and 
        inserting the following:

    ``(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i) or any Federal, State, or local 
law to the contrary, an owner or manager may bifurcate a lease under 
this section, or remove a household member from a lease under this 
section, without regard to whether a household member is a signatory to 
a lease, in order to evict, remove, terminate

[[Page 120 STAT. 760]]

occupancy rights, or terminate assistance to any individual who is a 
tenant or lawful occupant and who engages in criminal acts of physical 
violence against family members or others, without evicting, removing, 
terminating assistance to, or otherwise penalizing the victim of such 
violence who is also a tenant or lawful occupant. Such eviction, 
removal, termination of occupancy rights, or termination of assistance 
shall be effected in accordance with the procedures prescribed by 
Federal, State, and local law for the termination of leases or 
assistance under the relevant program of HUD-assisted housing.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1)(B)(iii), by striking subclause (II) 
        and inserting the following:

    ``(II) Notwithstanding subclause (I) or any Federal, State, or local 
law to the contrary, a public housing agency may terminate assistance 
to, or an owner or manager may bifurcate a lease under this section, or 
remove a household member from a lease under this section, without 
regard to whether a household member is a signatory to a lease, in order 
to evict, remove, terminate occupancy rights, or terminate assistance to 
any individual who is a tenant or lawful occupant and who engages in 
criminal acts of physical violence against family members or others, 
without evicting, removing, terminating assistance to, or otherwise 
penalizing the victim of such violence who is also a tenant or lawful 
occupant. Such eviction, removal, termination of occupancy rights, or 
termination of assistance shall be effected in accordance with the 
procedures prescribed by Federal, State, and local law for the 
termination of leases or assistance under the relevant program of HUD-
assisted housing.'';
            (3) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (9), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (10)(A)(i), by striking ``; and'' 
                and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (11)(B), by striking ``blood and 
                marriage'' and inserting ``blood or marriage'';
            (4) in subsection (o)--
                    (A) in the second sentence of paragraph (6)(B)--
                          (i) by striking ``by'' after ``denial of 
                      program assistance'';
                          (ii) by striking ``for admission for'' and 
                      inserting ``for admission or''; and
                          (iii) by striking ``admission, and that 
                      nothing'' and inserting ``admission. Nothing'';
                    (B) in paragraph (7)(D)--
                          (i) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the 
                      following:
                          ``(ii) Limitation.--Notwithstanding clause (i) 
                      or any Federal, State, or local law to the 
                      contrary, a public housing agency may terminate 
                      assistance to, or an owner or manager may 
                      bifurcate a lease under this section, or remove a 
                      household member from a lease under this section, 
                      without regard to whether a household member is a 
                      signatory to a lease, in order to evict, remove, 
                      terminate occupancy rights, or terminate 
                      assistance to any individual who is a tenant or 
                      lawful occupant and who engages in criminal acts 
                      of physical violence against family members or 
                      others,

[[Page 120 STAT. 761]]

                      without evicting, removing, terminating assistance 
                      to, or otherwise penalizing the victim of such 
                      violence who is also a tenant or lawful occupant. 
                      Such eviction, removal, termination of occupancy 
                      rights, or termination of assistance shall be 
                      effected in accordance with the procedures 
                      prescribed by Federal, State, and local law for 
                      the termination of leases or assistance under the 
                      relevant program of HUD-assisted housing.'';
                          (ii) in clause (iii), by striking ``access to 
                      control'' and inserting ``access or control''; and
                          (iii) in clause (v), by striking 
                      ``terminate,'' and inserting ``terminate''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (20)(D)(ii), by striking 
                ``distribution'' and inserting ``distribution or''; and
            (5) in subsection (ee)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the owner, 
                manager, or public housing agency requests such 
                certification'' and inserting ``the individual receives 
                a request for such certification from the owner, 
                manager, or public housing agency'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                          (i) by striking ``the owner, manager, public 
                      housing agency, or assisted housing provider has 
                      requested such certification in writing'' and 
                      inserting ``the individual has received a request 
                      in writing for such certification for the owner, 
                      manager, or public housing agency'';
                          (ii) by striking ``manager, public housing'' 
                      and inserting ``manager or public housing'' each 
                      place that term appears; and
                          (iii) by striking ``, or assisted housing 
                      provider'' each place that term appears;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``sexual 
                assault,'';
                    (D) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``sexual 
                assault,''; and
                    (E) in subparagraph (E)--
                          (i) by striking ``manager, public housing'' 
                      and inserting ``manager or public housing'' each 
                      place that term appears; and
                          (ii) by striking ``, or assisted housing 
                      provider'' each place that term appears.

    (f) Technical Amendment to Section 6 of United States Housing Act of 
1937.--Section 6 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (l)(6), by striking subparagraph (B) and 
        inserting the following: ``(B) notwithstanding subparagraph (A) 
        or any Federal, State, or local law to the contrary, a public 
        housing agency may bifurcate a lease under this section, or 
        remove a household member from a lease under this section, 
        without regard to whether a household member is a signatory to a 
        lease, in order to evict, remove, terminate occupancy rights, or 
        terminate assistance to any individual who is a tenant or lawful 
        occupant and who engages in criminal acts of physical violence 
        against family members or others, without evicting, removing, 
        terminating assistance to, or otherwise penalizing the victim of 
        such violence who is also a tenant or lawful occupant and such 
        eviction, removal, termination of occupancy

[[Page 120 STAT. 762]]

        rights, or termination of assistance shall be effected in 
        accordance with the procedures prescribed by Federal, State, and 
        local law for the termination of leases or assistance under the 
        relevant program of HUD-assisted housing;''; and
            (2) in subsection (u)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``the public 
                housing agency requests such certification'' and 
                inserting ``the individual receives a request for such 
                certification from the public housing agency'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``the public 
                housing agency has requested such certification in 
                writing'' and inserting ``the individual has received a 
                request in writing for such certification from the 
                public housing agency''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(D)(ii), by striking ``blood and 
                marriage'' and inserting ``blood or marriage''.

SEC. 6. TITLE VIII--IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT.

    (a) Petitions for Immigrant Status.--Section 204(a)(1)(D)(v) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(D)(v)) is amended 
by inserting ``or (B)(iii)'' after ``(A)(iv)''.
    (b) Inadmissible Aliens.--Section 212 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1182) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)(C)(i)--
                          (i) in subclause (II), by striking ``, or'' at 
                      the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                          (ii) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(III) classification or status as 
                                a VAWA self-petitioner; or'';
                    (B) in paragraph (6)(A)(ii), by amending subclause 
                (I) to read as follows:
                                    ``(I) the alien is a VAWA self-
                                petitioner;''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (9)(C)(ii), by striking ``the 
                Attorney General has consented'' and all that follows 
                through ``United States.'' and inserting the following: 
                ``the Secretary of Homeland Security has consented to 
                the alien's reapplying for admission.
                          ``(iii) Waiver.--The Secretary of Homeland 
                      Security may waive the application of clause (i) 
                      in the case of an alien who is a VAWA self-
                      petitioner if there is a connection between--
                                    ``(I) the alien's battering or 
                                subjection to extreme cruelty; and
                                    ``(II) the alien's removal, 
                                departure from the United States, 
                                reentry or reentries into the United 
                                States; or attempted reentry into the 
                                United States.'';
            (2) in subsection (g)(1), by amending subparagraph (C) to 
        read as follows:
                    ``(C) is a VAWA self-petitioner,'';
            (3) in subsection (h)(1), by amending subparagraph (C) to 
        read as follows:
                    ``(C) the alien is a VAWA self-petitioner; and''; 
                and
            (4) in subsection (i)(1), by striking ``an alien granted 
        classification under clause (iii) or (iv) of section 
        204(a)(1)(A) or clause (ii) or (iii) of section 204(a)(1)(B)'' 
        and inserting ``a VAWA self-petitioner''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 763]]

    (c) Deportable Aliens.--Section 237(a)(1)(H)(ii) of such Act (8 
U.S.C. 1227(a)(1)(H)(ii)) is amended to read as follows:
                          ``(ii) is a VAWA self-petitioner.''.

    (d) Removal.--Section 239(e)(2)(B) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 
1229(e)(2)(B)) is amended by striking ``(V)'' and inserting ``(U)''.
    (e) Cancellation of Removal.--Section 240A(b)(4)(B) of such Act (8 
U.S.C. 1229b(b)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``they were applications 
filed under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii), (A)(iv), (B)(ii), or (B)(iii) for 
purposes of section 245 (a) and (c).'' and inserting ``the applicants 
were VAWA self-petitioners.''.
    (f) Adjustment of Status.--Section 245 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``under subparagraph 
        (A)(iii), (A)(iv), (B)(ii), or (B)(iii) of section 204(a)(1) 
        or'' and inserting ``as a VAWA self-petitioner''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``under subparagraph 
        (A)(iii), (A)(iv), (A)(v), (A)(vi), (B)(ii), (B)(iii), or 
        (B)(iv) of section 204(a)(1)'' and inserting ``as a VAWA self-
        petitioner''.

    (g) Immigration Officers.--Section 287 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1357) 
is amended by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (h).
    (h) Penalties for Disclosure of Information.--Section 384(a)(2) of 
the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 
(8 U.S.C. 1367(a)(2)) is amended by striking ``clause (iii) or (iv)'' 
and all that follows and inserting ``paragraph (15)(T), (15)(U), or (51) 
of section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or section 
240A(b)(2) of such Act.''.

SEC. 7. TITLE IX--INDIAN WOMEN.

    (a) Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets.--
            (1) Grants to combat violent crimes against women.--Part T 
        of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating the second section 2007 (42 
                U.S.C. 3796gg-10) (relating to grants to Indian tribal 
                governments), as added by section 906 of the Violence 
                Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization 
                Act of 2005, as section 2015;
                    (B) by redesignating the second section 2008 (42 
                U.S.C. 3796gg-11) (relating to a tribal deputy), as 
                added by section 907 of the Violence Against Women and 
                Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, as 
                section 2016; and
                    (C) by moving those sections so as to appear at the 
                end of the part.
            (2) State grant amounts.--Section 2007(b) of the Omnibus 
        Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-
        1(b)), as amended by section 906(b) of the Violence Against 
        Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is 
        amended by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) 10 percent shall be available for grants under the 
        program authorized by section 2015, which shall not otherwise be 
        subject to the requirements of this part (other than section 
        2008);''.
            (3) Grants to indian tribal governments.--Section 2015 of 
        the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as added 
        by section 906 of the Violence Against Women and

[[Page 120 STAT. 764]]

        Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (as 
        redesignated by paragraph (1)(A)), <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796gg-
        10.>> is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                      striking ``and tribal organizations'' and 
                      inserting ``or authorized designees of Indian 
                      tribal governments'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at 
                      the end;
                          (iii) in paragraph (7), by striking the period 
                      at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                          (iv) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) provide legal assistance necessary to provide 
        effective aid to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
        stalking, or sexual assault who are seeking relief in legal 
        matters arising as a consequence of that abuse or violence, at 
        minimal or no cost to the victims.''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (c).
            (4) Tribal deputy responsibilities.--Section 2016(b)(1)(I) 
        of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (as 
        redesignated by paragraph (1)(B)) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796gg-11.>> is 
        amended by inserting after ``technical assistance'' the 
        following: ``that is developed and provided by entities having 
        expertise in tribal law, customary practices, and Federal Indian 
        law''.
            (5) Grants to encourage arrest policies and enforcement of 
        protection orders.--Section 2101 of the Omnibus Crime Control 
        and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796hh) is amended by 
        striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:

    ``(e) Allotment for Indian Tribes.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not less than 10 percent of the total 
        amount available under this section for each fiscal year shall 
        be available for grants under the program authorized by section 
        2015.
            ``(2) Applicability of part.--The requirements of this part 
        shall not apply to funds allocated for the program described in 
        paragraph (1).''.

    (b) Rural Domestic Violence.--
            (1) In general.--Section 40295(d) of the Safe Homes for 
        Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13971(d)), as amended by section 
        306 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
        Reauthorization Act of 2005, is amended by striking paragraph 
        (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Allotment for indian tribes.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not less than 10 percent of the 
                total amount available under this section for each 
                fiscal year shall be available for grants under the 
                program authorized by section 2015 of the Omnibus Crime 
                Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-
                10).
                    ``(B) Applicability of part.--The requirements of 
                this section shall not apply to funds allocated for the 
                program described in subparagraph (A).''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 906 of the Violence 
        Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
        2005 is amended by--
                    (A) <<NOTE: 42 USC 13971.>> striking subsection (d); 
                and
                    (B) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796gg-6, 
                10420, 13975.>> redesignating subsections (e) through 
                (g) as subsections (d) through (f), respectively.

    (c) Violence Against Women Act of 1994.--

[[Page 120 STAT. 765]]

            (1) Transitional housing assistance.--Section 40299(g) of 
        the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13975(g)), as 
        amended by sections 602 and 906 of the Violence Against Women 
        and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking clause (i) and 
                inserting the following:
                          ``(i) Indian tribes.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not less than 10 
                                percent of the total amount available 
                                under this section for each fiscal year 
                                shall be available for grants under the 
                                program authorized by section 2015 of 
                                the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
                                Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-
                                10).
                                    ``(II) Applicability of part.--The 
                                requirements of this section shall not 
                                apply to funds allocated for the program 
                                described in subclause (I).''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (4).
            (2) Court training and improvements.--Section 41006 of the 
        Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043a-3), as 
        added by section 105 of the Violence Against Women and 
        Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is amended by 
        striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:

    ``(c) Set Aside.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not less than 10 percent of the total 
        amount available under this section for each fiscal year shall 
        be available for grants under the program authorized by section 
        2015 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
        (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-10).
            ``(2) Applicability of part.--The requirements of this 
        section shall not apply to funds allocated for the program 
        described in paragraph (1).''.

    (d) Violence Against Women Act of 2000.--
            (1) Legal assistance for victims.--Section 1201(f) of the 
        Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-6(f)), as 
        amended by sections 103 and 906 of the Violence Against Women 
        and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``10 
                      percent'' and inserting ``3 percent'';
                          (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                      subparagraph (C); and
                          (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                      following:
                    ``(B) Tribal government program.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Not less than 7 percent of 
                      the total amount available under this section for 
                      each fiscal year shall be available for grants 
                      under the program authorized by section 2015 of 
                      the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
                      1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-10).
                          ``(ii) Applicability of part.--The 
                      requirements of this section shall not apply to 
                      funds allocated for the program described in 
                      clause (i).''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (4).

[[Page 120 STAT. 766]]

            (2) Safe havens for children.--Section 1301 of the Violence 
        Against Women Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 10420), as amended by 
        sections 906 and 306 of the Violence Against Women and 
        Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (e)(2)--
                          (i) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                          (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and 
                      (C) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; 
                      and
                    (B) by striking subsection (f) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(f) Allotment for Indian Tribes.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Grants.>> In general.--Not less than 10 
        percent of the total amount available under this section for 
        each fiscal year shall be available for grants under the program 
        authorized by section 2015 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
        Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg-10).
            ``(2) Applicability of part.--The requirements of this 
        section shall not apply to funds allocated for the program 
        described in paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 8. TITLE XI--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

    (a) Organized Retail Theft.--Section 1105(a)(3) of the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (28 
U.S.C. 509 note) is amended by striking ``The Attorney General through 
the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the Office of Justice may'' and 
inserting ``The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the 
Office of Justice Programs may''.
    (b) Formulas and Reporting.--Sections 1134 and 1135 of the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-162; 119 Stat. 3108), <<NOTE: 20 USC 1152; 42 USC 
3796gg-1, 3796gg-3, 10420, 13975, 14039.>> and the amendments made by 
such sections, are repealed.

    (c) Grants for Young Witness Assistance.--Section 1136(a) of the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 3743(a)) is amended by striking ``The Attorney General, 
acting through the Bureau of Justice Assistance, may'' and inserting 
``The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the Office of 
Justice Programs may''.
    (d) Use of Federal Training Facilities.--Section 1173 of the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (28 U.S.C. 530c note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or for meals, lodging, 
        or other expenses related to such internal training or 
        conference meeting'' before the period; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``that requires specific 
        authorization'' and inserting ``authorized''.

    (e) Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management.--Part A of title I 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3711 et seq.) is amended by redesignating the section 105 <<NOTE: 42 USC 
3712d, 3712h.>> titled ``office of audit, assessment, and management'' 
as section 109 and transferring such section to the end of such part A.

    (f) Community Capacity Development Office.--Section 106 of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3712e) is 
amended by striking ``section 105(b)'' each place such term appears and 
inserting ``section 103(b)''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 767]]

    (g) Availability of Funds.--Section 108(b) of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3712g(b)) is amended by 
striking ``revert to the Treasury'' and inserting ``be deobligated''.
    (h) Deletion of Duplicative Reference to Tribal Governments.--
Section 501(b) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3751(b) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
        period; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (3).

    (i) Applications for Byrne Grants.--Section 502 of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3752) is amended in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``90 days'' and inserting 
``120 days''.
    (j) Matching Grant Program for School Security.--Part AA of title I 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3797a et seq.) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3797a.>> in section 2701(a), by striking 
        ``The Attorney General, acting through the Office of Community 
        Oriented Policing Services,'' and inserting ``The Director of 
        the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (in this 
        section referred to as the `Director')''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3797a-3797c.>> by striking ``Attorney 
        General'' each place such term appears and inserting 
        ``Director''.

    (k) Funding.--Section 1101 of the Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-
162) <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 1086.>> is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), by striking ``$800,255,000'' and 
        inserting ``$809,372,000'';
            (2) in paragraph (11), by striking ``$923,613,000'' and 
        inserting ``$935,817,000'';
            (3) in paragraph (12), by striking ``$8,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$10,000,000''; and
            (4) in paragraph (14), by striking ``$1,270,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,303,000''.

    (l) Drug Courts Technical Assistance and Training.--Section 2957(b) 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3797u-6(b)) is amended by striking ``Community Capacity Development 
Office'' each place such term appears and inserting ``Bureau of Justice 
Assistance''.
    (m) Aimee's Law.--Section 2001(e)(1) of division C of Public Law 
106-386 (42 U.S.C. 13713(e)(1)) is amended by striking ``section 506 of 
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968'' and inserting 
``section 505 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968''.
    (n) Effective Dates.--
            (1) Office of weed and feed strategies.--Section 1121(c) of 
        the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
        Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3712a note) is amended by 
        striking ``90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act'' 
        and inserting ``with respect to appropriations for fiscal year 
        2007 and for each fiscal year thereafter''.
            (2) Substance abuse treatment.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 4 of subtitle B of title XI 
                of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice

[[Page 120 STAT. 768]]

                Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-
                162; <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 3110.>> 3110) is amended by 
                adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1147. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    ``The amendments made by sections 1144 and 1145 shall take effect on 
October 1, 2006.''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--The table of contents in 
                section 2 of the Violence Against Women and Department 
                of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 106-
                162; 119 Stat. 2960) is amended by inserting after the 
                item relating to section 1146 the following:

        ``Sec. 1147. Effective date.''.

            (3) Office of audit, assessment, and management.--Section 
        1158(b) of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
        Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3712d note) is amended to 
        read as follows:

    ``(b) Effective Date.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        section 109 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
        1968 (42 U.S.C. 3712d) shall take effect on April 5, 2006.
            ``(2) Certain provisions.--Subsections (c), (d), and (e) of 
        section 109 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
        1968 (42 U.S.C. 3712d) shall take effect on October 1, 2006.''.
            (4) Office of applied law enforcement technology.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1160(b) of the Violence 
                Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization 
                Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3712f note) is amended by 
                striking ``90 days after the date of the enactment of 
                this Act'' and inserting ``on October 1, 2006''.
                    (B) Availability of funds.--Section 1161(b) of the 
                Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
                Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3712g note) is 
                amended by striking ``90 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``on October 1, 
                2006''.
            (5) Evidence-based approaches.--Section 1168 of the Violence 
        Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
        2005 (Public Law 109-162; 119 Stat. 3122) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796ee-
        2.>> is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Section 1802'' and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(a) In General.--Section 1802''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796ee-2 note.>> Effective Date.--The 
amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2006.''.
            (6) State criminal alien assistance program.--Section 1196 
        of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
        Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162; 119 Stat. 
        3130) <<NOTE: 8 USC 1231 note.>> is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:

[[Page 120 STAT. 769]]

    ``(d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and 
(b) shall take effect on October 1, 2006.''.

    Approved August 12, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 3693:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            July 19, considered and passed Senate.
            July 28, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>