[111th Congress Public Law 42]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 1963]]

Public Law 111-42
111th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Approving the renewal of import restrictions contained in the Burmese 
Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 
                      28, 2009 -  [H.J. Res. 56]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

 TITLE I--APPROVING THE RENEWAL OF IMPORT RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN THE 
                BURMESE FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003

SEC. 101. AMENDMENT TO BURMESE FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003.

    Section 9(b)(3) of the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-61; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by striking ``six 
years'' and inserting ``nine years''.

SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>>  RENEWAL OF IMPORT RESTRICTIONS 
            UNDER BURMESE FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003.

    (a) In General.--Congress approves the renewal of the import 
restrictions contained in section 3(a)(1) and section 3A(b)(1) and 
(c)(1) of the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--This joint resolution shall be deemed to 
be a ``renewal resolution'' for purposes of section 9 of the Burmese 
Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003.

SEC. 103. CUSTOMS USER FEES.

    Section 13031(j)(3)(B)(i) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(j)(3)(B)(i)) is amended by 
striking ``January 31, 2018'' and inserting ``February 7, 2018''.

SEC. 104. <<NOTE: 19 USC 58c note.>>  EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect 
on the date of the enactment of this joint resolution or July 26, 2009, 
whichever occurs first.

[[Page 123 STAT. 1964]]

TITLE II--TIME <<NOTE: Corporate Estimated Tax Shift Act of 2009.>>  FOR 
PAYMENT OF CORPORATE ESTIMATED TAXES

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Corporate Estimated Tax Shift Act 
of 2009''.

SEC. 202. <<NOTE: 26 USC 6655 note.>>  TIME FOR PAYMENT OF CORPORATE 
            ESTIMATED TAXES.

    (a) Repeal of Adjustments for 2010, 2011, and 2013.--Section 401 of 
the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 (and any 
modification of such section contained in any other provision of law) 
shall not apply with respect to any installment of corporate estimated 
tax which (without regard to such section) would otherwise be due after 
December 31, 2009.
    (b) Adjustment for 2014.--Notwithstanding section 6655 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986--
            (1) in the case of a corporation with assets of not less 
        than $1,000,000,000 (determined as of the end of the preceding 
        taxable year), the amount of any required installment of 
        corporate estimated tax which is otherwise due in July, August, 
        or September of 2014 shall be 100.25 percent of such amount; and
            (2) the amount of the next required installment after an 
        installment referred to in paragraph (1) shall be appropriately 
        reduced to reflect the amount of the increase by reason of such 
        paragraph.

    Approved July 28, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 56:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            July 21, considered and passed House.
            July 23, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>