[111th Congress Public Law 221]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 2375]]

 NATIONAL SEPTEMBER 11 MEMORIAL & MUSEUM COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL ACT OF 2010

[[Page 124 STAT. 2376]]

Public Law 111-221
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
      To require the Secretary of the Treasury to strike medals in 
    commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, 
  terrorist attacks on the United States and the establishment of the 
       National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the World Trade 
             Center. <<NOTE: Aug. 6, 2010 -  [H.R. 4684]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: National 
September 11 Memorial & Museum Commemorative Medal Act of 2010. 31 USC 
5111 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National September 11 Memorial & 
Museum Commemorative Medal Act of 2010''.
SEC. 2. STRIKING AND DESIGN OF MEDALS.

    (a) Striking of Medals.--In commemoration of the 10th anniversary of 
the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States and the 
establishment of the National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the 
World Trade Center, the Secretary of the Treasury (hereinafter referred 
to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike and make available for sale not 
more than 2,000,000 silver medals, each of which shall contain 1 ounce 
of silver.
    (b) Design Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--The design of the medals struck under this 
        Act shall be emblematic of the courage, sacrifice, and strength 
        of those individuals who perished in the terrorist attacks of 
        September 11, 2001, the bravery of those who risked their lives 
        to save others that day, and the endurance, resilience, and hope 
        of those who survived.
            (2) Inscriptions.--On each medal struck under this Act, 
        there shall be--
                    (A) an inscription of the years ``2001-2011''; and
                    (B) an inscription of the words ``Always Remember''.

    (c) Selection.--The design for the medals struck under this Act 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
        National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the World Trade 
        Center and the Commission of Fine Arts; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.
SEC. 3. ISSUANCE OF MEDALS.

    (a) Quality of Medals.--The medals struck under this Act shall be 
made available for sale in the quality comparable to proof coins.
    (b) Mint Facility.--
            (1) In general.--Only 2 facilities of the United States Mint 
        may be used to strike medals under this Act.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2377]]

            (2) Use of the united states mints at west point, new york, 
        and philadelphia, pennsylvania.--It is the sense of Congress 
        that, to the extent possible, approximately one-half of the 
        medals to be struck under this Act should be struck at the 
        United States Mint at West Point, New York, and approximately 
        one-half struck at the United States Mint at Philadelphia, 
        Pennsylvania.

    (c) Date of Issuance.--The Secretary may make the medals available 
for sale under this Act beginning on January 1, 2011.
    (d) Termination of Authority.--No medals shall be struck under this 
Act after December 31, 2012.
SEC. 4. NUMISMATIC ITEMS.

    For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States 
Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be 
numismatic items.
SEC. 5. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of 
chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 6. SALE OF MEDALS.

    (a) Sales Price.--The medals made available for sale under this Act 
shall be sold by the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the cost of designing and selling such medals (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping); and
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 7 with respect to such 
        medals.

    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the medals 
at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Introductory Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept introductory 
        orders for medals made available for sale under this Act.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to introductory 
        orders under paragraph (1) shall be made at a reasonable 
        discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) In General.--All sales of medals made available for sale under 
this Act shall include a surcharge of $10 per medal.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, United 
States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary from the sale of 
medals under this Act shall be paid to the National September 11 
Memorial & Museum at the World Trade Center to support the operations 
and maintenance of the National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the 
World Trade Center following its completion.
    (c) Audits.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall have 
the right to examine such books, records, documents, and other data of 
the National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the World Trade Center as 
may be related to the expenditures of amounts paid under subsection (b).
SEC. 8. BUDGET COMPLIANCE.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined

[[Page 124 STAT. 2378]]

by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
Representatives, provided that such statement has been submitted prior 
to the vote on passage.

    Approved August 6, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4684:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            July 20, considered and passed House.
            July 22, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>