[111th Congress Public Law 48]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 1974]]

Public Law 111-48
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the conveyance of a parcel of land held by the Bureau of 
 Prisons of the Department of Justice in Miami Dade County, Florida, to 
facilitate the construction of a new educational facility that includes 
     a secure parking area for the Bureau of Prisons, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 12, 2009 -  [H.R. 838]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Miami Dade College Land 
Conveyance Act.>> assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Miami Dade College Land Conveyance 
Act''.
SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF BUREAU OF PRISONS LAND TO MIAMI DADE COUNTY, 
                    FLORIDA.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Attorney General shall convey to Miami 
Dade College of Miami Dade County, Florida (in this section referred to 
as the ``College''), all right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to a parcel of land held by the Bureau of Prisons of the 
Department of Justice in Miami Dade County, Florida, consisting of a 
parking lot approximately 47,500 square feet and located at 35 NE 2 
Street, for the purpose of permitting the College to use the parcel as a 
site for a new educational building that includes a parking area, of 
which not less than 118 secure parking spaces shall be designated for 
use by the Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice.
    (b) Reversionary Interest.--If the Attorney General determines at 
any time that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not 
being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified in 
such subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to the property 
shall revert, at the option of the Attorney General, to the United 
States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry 
onto the property. Any determination of the Attorney General under this 
subsection shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a 
hearing.
    (c) Survey.--If the Attorney General considers it necessary, the 
Attorney General may have the exact acreage or square footage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) determined 
by a survey satisfactory to the Attorney General. The College shall bear 
the cost of the survey.

[[Page 123 STAT. 1975]]

    (d) Exemption.--Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) shall not apply to the 
conveyance of land under subsection (a).

    Approved August 12, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 838 (S. 814):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            Mar. 31, considered and passed House.
            July 28, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>