[111th Congress Public Law 168]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 1190]]

Public Law 111-168
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To provide for the sale of the Federal Government's reversionary 
  interest in approximately 60 acres of land in Salt Lake City, Utah, 
 originally conveyed to the Mount Olivet Cemetery Association under the 
     Act of January 23, 1909. <<NOTE: May 24, 2010 -  [H.R. 1442]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL 
                              REVERSIONARY INTEREST, MT. OLIVET 
                              CEMETERY, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--If, within one year after the completion 
of the appraisal required by subsection (c), the Mount Olivet Cemetery 
Association of Salt Lake City, Utah (in this section referred to as the 
``Association''), submits to the Secretary of the Interior an offer to 
acquire the Federal reversionary interest in all of the approximately 60 
acres of land in Salt Lake City, Utah, conveyed to the Association under 
the Act of January 23, 1909 (chapter 37, 35 Stat. 589), the Secretary 
shall convey to the Association such reversionary interest in the lands 
covered by the offer. The Secretary shall complete the conveyance not 
later than 30 days after the date of the offer.
    (b) Survey.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the lands 
described in subsection (a) to determine the precise boundaries and 
acreage of the lands subject to the Federal reversionary interest.
    (c) Appraisal.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the Federal 
reversionary interest in the lands identified by the survey in 
subsection (b). The appraisal shall be completed in accordance with the 
``Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions'' and the 
``Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice''.
    (d) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
Federal reversionary interest under subsection (a), the Association 
shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the appraised value of the 
Federal interest, as determined under subsection (c). The consideration 
shall be paid not later than 30 days after the date the conveyance is 
made.
    (e) Costs of Conveyance.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (a), all costs associated with the conveyance under 
subsection (a), including the cost of the survey required by subsection 
(b) and the appraisal required by subsection (c), shall be paid by the 
Association.

[[Page 124 STAT. 1191]]

    (f) Deposit and Use of Proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit the 
proceeds from the conveyance under subsection (a) in the Federal Land 
Disposal Account established by section 206 of the Federal Land 
Transaction Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2305). The proceeds so deposited 
shall be available to the Secretary for expenditure in accordance with 
subsection (c) of such section.

    Approved May 24, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1442:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 111-198 (Comm. on Natural Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-150 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 155 (2009):
                                    July 14, 16, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 156 (2010):
                                    May 7, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>