[111th Congress Public Law 242]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 2607]]

Public Law 111-242
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2011, and for other 
           purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 2010 -  [H.R. 3081]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2011.>>   That the following sums are hereby 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for fiscal 
year 2011, and for other purposes, namely:

    Sec. 101.  Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2010 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this Act, that were conducted in fiscal year 2010, and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:
            (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 
        (Public Law 111-80).
            (2) Division A of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
        Act, 2010 (division A of Public Law 111-118).
            (3) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-85).
            (4) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
        2010 (Public Law 111-83) and section 601 of the Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212).
            (5) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 (division A of Public Law 111-
        88).
            (6) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2010 
        (division A of Public Law 111-68).
            (7) The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 
        111-117).
            (8) Chapter 3 of title I of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212), except for appropriations under 
        the heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' relating to Haiti 
        following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, or the Port of 
        Guam: Provided, That the amount provided for the Department of 
        Defense pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed a rate for 
        operations of $29,387,401,000: Provided further, That the 
        Secretary of Defense shall allocate such amount to each 
        appropriation account, budget activity, activity group, and 
        subactivity group, and to each program, project, and activity 
        within

[[Page 124 STAT. 2608]]

        each appropriation account, in the same proportions as such 
        appropriations for fiscal year 2010.
            (9) Section 102(c) of chapter 1 of title I of the 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) that 
        addresses guaranteed loans in the rural housing insurance fund.
            (10) The appropriation under the heading ``Department of 
        Commerce--United States Patent and Trademark Office'' in the 
        United States Patent and Trademark Office Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-224).

    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
fiscal year 2010 or prior years; (2) the increase in production rates 
above those sustained with fiscal year 2010 funds; or (3) the 
initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
operation, or organization (defined as any project, subproject, 
activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a 
program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 line item 
in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 line 
item that includes a program element and subprogram element within an 
appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2010.
    (b) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> No appropriation or funds made available or 
authority granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense 
shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance 
procurement funding for economic order quantity procurement unless 
specifically appropriated later.

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this Act shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any 
project or activity during the period for which funds or authority for 
such project or activity are available under this Act.
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>   Unless otherwise provided for 
in this Act or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 
2011, appropriations and funds made available and authority granted 
pursuant to this Act shall be available until whichever of the following 
first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation for any 
project or activity provided for in this Act; (2) the enactment into law 
of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2011 without any 
provision for such project or activity; or (3) December 3, 2010.

    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be charged 
to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a bill 
in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is 
contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this Act may be used without regard to the 
time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set forth 
in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code,

[[Page 124 STAT. 2609]]

but nothing in this Act may be construed to waive any other provision of 
law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, for those programs that would otherwise have high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of appropriations at the 
beginning of fiscal year 2011 because of distributions of funding to 
States, foreign countries, grantees, or others, such high initial rates 
of operation or complete distribution shall not be made, and no grants 
shall be awarded for such programs funded by this Act that would impinge 
on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This Act shall be implemented so that only the most 
limited funding action of that permitted in the Act shall be taken in 
order to provide for continuation of projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2010, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for 
mandatory payments due on or about the first day of any month that 
begins after October 2010 but not later than 30 days after the date 
specified in section 106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be 
available for such payments.

    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid furloughs 
within such department or agency, consistent with the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not be used until after the department 
or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer non-
personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114.  The following amounts are designated as an emergency 
requirement and necessary to meet emergency needs pursuant to sections 
403(a) and 423(b) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010:
            (1) Amounts incorporated by reference in this Act that were 
        previously designated as available for overseas deployments and 
        other activities pursuant to such concurrent resolution.
            (2) Amounts made available pursuant to paragraph (8) of 
        section 101 of this Act.

    Sec. 115.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Food for Peace Title II Grants'' in 
chapter 1 of title I of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2010 
(Public Law 111-212) may be used to reimburse obligations incurred for 
the purposes provided therein prior to the enactment of such Act.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2610]]

    Sec. <<NOTE: Extension date.>> 116.  The authority provided by 
section 18(h)(5) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769(h)(5)) shall continue in effect through the earlier of the 
date of enactment of an authorization Act related to the Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act or the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act.

    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Commerce--Bureau of the Census--Periodic Censuses and 
Programs'', for necessary expenses to collect and publish statistics for 
periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, at a rate for 
operations of $964,315,000.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Extension date.>> 118.  The authority provided by 
section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2006 (Public Law 109-163), as most recently amended by section 1222 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2518), shall continue in effect through the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this Act.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Claims.>> 119.  Notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
section 310 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 
111-32; 123 Stat. 1870), a claim described in that subsection that is 
submitted before the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act shall 
be treated as a claim for which payment may be made under such section 
310.

    Sec. 120. (a) Rescission.--The unobligated balance of authority 
provided for investigations under the heading ``Department of Defense--
Civil, Department of the Army, Corps of Engineers--Civil, 
Investigations'', in chapter 4 of title I of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212; 124 Stat. 2312) is 
rescinded as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Appropriation.--Notwithstanding any other provision in this 
Act--
            (1) there is appropriated to the Department of the Army, 
        Corps of Engineers, an amount equal to the unobligated balance 
        rescinded by subsection (a), to remain available until expended, 
        for investigations;
            (2) that such amount be available on the date of enactment 
        of this Act; and
            (3) the amount is designated as an emergency requirement and 
        necessary to meet emergency needs pursuant to sections 403(a) 
        and 423(b) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
        resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.

    Sec. 121. (a) Rescission.--The unobligated balance of authority 
provided for in section 401 of chapter 4 of title I of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212; 124 Stat. 2313) for 
drought emergency assistance is rescinded as of the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Appropriation.--Notwithstanding any other provision in this 
Act--
            (1) there is appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation, an 
        amount equal to the unobligated balance rescinded by subsection 
        (a), to remain available until expended, for drought emergency 
        assistance: Provided, That financial assistance may be provided 
        under the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 
        1991 (43 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) and any other applicable Federal 
        law (including regulations) for the optimization and 
        conservation of project water supplies to assist drought-plagued 
        areas of the West;

[[Page 124 STAT. 2611]]

            (2) that such amount be available on the date of enactment 
        of this Act; and
            (3) the amount is designated as an emergency requirement and 
        necessary to meet emergency needs pursuant to sections 403(a) 
        and 423(b) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
        resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.

    Sec. 122.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Energy--Weapons Activities'' at a rate for operations of 
$7,008,835,000.
    Sec. 123.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, the District of Columbia may expend local funds for 
programs and activities under the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' 
for such programs and activities under title IV of S. 3677 (111th 
Congress), as reported by the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
at the rate set forth under ``District of Columbia Funds'' as included 
in the Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Request Act (D.C. Act 18-448), as 
modified as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> 124.  Section 550(b) of Public Law 
109-295, as amended by section 550 of Public Law 111-83, shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act 
for ``October 4, 2010''.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> 125.  Section 203(m) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5133(m)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2010''.

    Sec. 126.  Any funds made available pursuant to section 101 for the 
Federal Air Marshals may be obligated at a rate for operations not 
exceeding that necessary to sustain domestic and international flight 
coverage at the same level as the final quarter of fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 127.  Any funds made available pursuant to section 101 for U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection may be obligated at a rate for operations 
not exceeding that necessary to sustain the numbers of personnel in 
place in the final quarter of fiscal year 
2010. <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate on each use of the authority 
provided in this section.

    Sec. 128.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of the Interior--Minerals Management Service--Royalty and 
Offshore Minerals Management'' at a rate for operations of $365,000,000: 
Provided, That amounts provided herein from the general fund shall be 
reduced in an amount not to exceed $154,890,000, as receipts from 
increases to rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost recovery 
fees are received: <<NOTE: Rescission.>>  Provided further, That of the 
prior-year unobligated balances available for ``Department of the 
Interior--Minerals Management Service--Royalty and Offshore Minerals 
Management'', $25,000,000 are rescinded.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> 129.  Section 2(e)(1)(B) of Public Law 
109-129 shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2010''.

    Sec. 130.  From funds transferred to ``Department of Health and 
Human Services--Office of the Secretary--Public Health and Social 
Services Emergency Fund'' by Public Law 111-117 in the fourth paragraph 
under such heading, amounts shall be available through the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this Act to support

[[Page 124 STAT. 2612]]

advanced research and development pursuant to section 319L of the Public 
Health Service Act, at a rate for operations of $305,000,000.
    Sec. 131. (a) Extension of the Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families Program.--Activities authorized by part A of title IV and 
section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act (other than the Emergency 
Contingency Fund for State Temporary Assistance for Needy Families 
Programs established under subsection (c) of section 403 of such Act) 
shall continue through the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act 
in the manner authorized for fiscal year 2010, subject to the amendments 
made by subsection (b) of this section, and out of any money in the 
Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are 
hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. 
Grants and payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the 
applicable portion of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 at the pro 
rata portion of the level provided for such activities through the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2010.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Supplemental grants for population increases.--Section 
        403(a)(3)(H)(ii) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        603(a)(3)(H)(ii)) is amended to read as follows:
                          ``(ii) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> subparagraph 
                      (G) shall be applied as if `the date specified in 
                      section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations 
                      Act, 2011' were substituted for `fiscal year 
                      2001'; and''.
            (2) Contingency fund.--
                    (A) Deposit into fund.--Section 403(b)(2) of such 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 603(b)(2)) is amended--
                          (i) by striking ``fiscal years 1997'' and all 
                      that follows through ``2003'' and inserting 
                      ``fiscal years 2011 and 2012''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``$2,000,000,000'' and 
                      inserting ``, in the case of fiscal year 2011, 
                      $506,000,000 and in the case of fiscal year 2012, 
                      $612,000,000''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 403(b)(3)(C)(ii) 
                of such Act (42 U.S.C. 603(b)(3)(C)(ii)) is amended by 
                striking ``fiscal years 1997 through 2010 shall not 
                exceed the total amount appropriated pursuant to 
                paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2011 and 
                2012, respectively, shall not exceed the total amount 
                appropriated pursuant to paragraph (2) for each such 
                fiscal year''.
            (3) Maintenance of effort.--Section 409(a)(7) of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 609(a)(7)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 2011'' and 
                inserting ``2011, or 2012''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``2010'' 
                and inserting ``2011''.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Extension date.>> 132.  Activities authorized by 
section 429 of the Social Security Act shall continue through September 
30, 2011, in the manner authorized for fiscal year 2010, and out of any 
money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, 
there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such 
purpose. Grants and payments may be made pursuant to this authority on a 
quarterly basis through fiscal year 2011 at the level provided for such 
activities for the corresponding quarter of fiscal year 2010.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2613]]

    Sec. 133.  <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 USC 629f note.>> Effective 
October 1, 2010, subpart 2 of part B of title IV of the Social Security 
Act is amended--
            (1) in section 436 (42 U.S.C. 629f)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) by striking ``2011'' and inserting 
                      ``2010''; and
                          (ii) by inserting before the period the 
                      following: ``, and $365,000,000 for fiscal year 
                      2011''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$10,000,000'' in subsection (b)(2) 
                and inserting ``$30,000,000''; and
            (2) in section 438 (42 U.S.C. 629h)--
                    (A) by striking ``2010'' in subsection (c)(2)(A) and 
                inserting ``2011''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end of subsection (e) the 
                following flush sentence: ``For fiscal year 2011, out of 
                the amount reserved pursuant to section 436(b)(2) for 
                such fiscal year, there are available $10,000,000 for 
                grants referred to in subsection (b)(2)(B), and 
                $10,000,000 for grants referred to in subsection 
                (b)(2)(C).''.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Robert C. Byrd.>> 134.  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, for payment in equal shares to the children and 
grandchildren of Robert C. Byrd, $193,400 is appropriated.

    Sec. 135.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
deposit into ``Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005'' at a 
rate for operations of $2,354,285,000.
    Sec. 136.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of State--Administration of Foreign Affairs--Diplomatic and 
Consular Programs'' at a rate for operations of $8,601,000,000.
    Sec. 137.  <<NOTE: Grants. Israel. Egypt. Jordan.>> Notwithstanding 
section 101, amounts are provided for ``International Security 
Assistance--Funds Appropriated to the President--Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' at a rate for operations of $5,160,000,000, of which 
not less than $2,775,000,000 shall be available for grants only for 
Israel, not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be available for grants only 
for Egypt, and not less than $300,000,000 shall be available for 
assistance for Jordan: Provided, That the dollar amount in the fourth 
proviso under such heading in title IV of division F of Public Law 111-
117 shall be deemed to be $729,825,000.

    Sec. 138. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``International Security Assistance--Funds Appropriated to the 
President--Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund'' at a rate for 
operations of $700,000,000.
    (b) Amounts provided by subsection (a) shall be available to the 
Secretary of State under the terms and conditions provided for this Fund 
in Public Law 111-32 and Public Law 111-212 through the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this Act.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> 139.  Section 1(b)(2) of the Passport 
Act of June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 214(b)(2)) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
``September 30, 2010''.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> 140. (a) Section 1115(d) of Public Law 
111-32 shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act for ``October 1, 2010''.

    (b) Section 824(g) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4064(g)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act for ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph (2).
    (c) Section 61(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
1956 (22 U.S.C. 2733(a)) shall be applied by substituting

[[Page 124 STAT. 2614]]

the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for ``October 1, 2010'' 
in paragraph (2).
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 625(j)(1) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).

    Sec. 141.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 
(22 U.S.C. 6553) shall remain in effect through the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this Act.

    Sec. 142.  <<NOTE: Loans.>> Commitments to guarantee loans incurred 
under the General and Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by 
sections 238 and 519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 
1735c), shall not exceed a rate for operations of $20,000,000,000: 
Provided, That total loan principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, may be apportioned through the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act, at $80,000,000 multiplied by the number of days 
covered by this Act.

    Sec. 143.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The provisions of title II of 
the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11311 et seq.) 
shall continue in effect, notwithstanding section 209 of such Act, 
through the earlier of: (1) the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
Act; or (2) the date of the enactment into law of an authorization Act 
relating to the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act.

    Sec. 144.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law or of this 
Act, for mortgages for which the mortgagee issues credit approval for 
the borrower during fiscal year 2011, the second sentence of section 
255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)) shall be 
considered to require that in no case may the benefits of insurance 
under such section 255 exceed 150 percent of the maximum dollar amount 
in effect under the sixth sentence of section 305(a)(2) of the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454(a)(2)).
    Sec. 145. (a) Loan Limit Floor Based on 2008 Levels.--For mortgages 
for which the mortgagee issues credit approval for the borrower during 
fiscal year 2011, if the dollar amount limitation on the principal 
obligation of a mortgage determined under section 203(b)(2) of the 
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(b)(2)) for any size residence for 
any area is less than such dollar amount limitation that was in effect 
for such size residence for such area for 2008 pursuant to section 202 
of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-185; 122 Stat. 
620), notwithstanding any other provision of law or of this Act, the 
maximum dollar amount limitation on the principal obligation of a 
mortgage for such size residence for such area for purposes of such 
section 203(b)(2) shall be considered (except for purposes of section 
255(g) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g))) to be such dollar amount 
limitation in effect for such size residence for such area for 2008.
    (b) Discretionary Authority for Sub-areas.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law or of this Act, if the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development determines, for any geographic area that is smaller 
than an area for which dollar amount limitations on the principal 
obligation of a mortgage are determined under section 203(b)(2) of the 
National Housing Act, that a higher such maximum dollar amount 
limitation is warranted for any particular size or sizes of residences 
in such sub-area by higher median home prices in such sub-area, the 
Secretary may, for mortgages

[[Page 124 STAT. 2615]]

for which the mortgagee issues credit approval for the borrower during 
fiscal year 2011, increase the maximum dollar amount limitation for such 
size or sizes of residences for such sub-area that is otherwise in 
effect (including pursuant to subsection (a) of this section), but in no 
case to an amount that exceeds the amount specified in section 202(a)(2) 
of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008.
    Sec. 146. (a) Loan Limit Floor Based on 2008 Levels.--For mortgages 
originated during fiscal year 2011, if the limitation on the maximum 
original principal obligation of a mortgage that may be purchased by the 
Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation determined under section 302(b)(2) of the Federal National 
Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2)) or section 
305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 
1754(a)(2)) respectively, for any size residence for any area is less 
than such maximum original principal obligation limitation that was in 
effect for such size residence for such area for 2008 pursuant to 
section 201 of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-185; 
122 Stat. 619), notwithstanding any other provision of law or of this 
Act, the limitation on the maximum original principal obligation of a 
mortgage for such Association and Corporation for such size residence 
for such area shall be such maximum limitation in effect for such size 
residence for such area for 2008.
    (b) Discretionary Authority for Sub-areas.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law or of this Act, if the Director of the Federal 
Housing Finance Agency determines, for any geographic area that is 
smaller than an area for which limitations on the maximum original 
principal obligation of a mortgage are determined for the Federal 
National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, that a higher such maximum original principal obligation 
limitation is warranted for any particular size or sizes of residences 
in such sub-area by higher median home prices in such sub-area, the 
Director may, for mortgages originated during fiscal year 2011, increase 
the maximum original principal obligation limitation for such size or 
sizes of residences for such sub-area that is otherwise in effect 
(including pursuant to subsection (a) of this section) for such 
Association and Corporation, but in no case to an amount that exceeds 
the amount specified in the matter following the comma in section 
201(a)(l)(B) of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2616]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2011''.

    Approved September 30, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3081 (S. 1434):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 111-187 (Comm. on Appropriations).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-44 (Comm. on Appropriations) accompanying        
  
S. 1434.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 155 (2009):
                                    July 9, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 156 (2010):
                                    Sept. 29, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended. House
                                     concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>