[111th Congress Public Law 157]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 1115]]

                    CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010

[[Page 124 STAT. 1116]]

Public Law 111-157
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide a temporary extension of certain programs, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 15, 2010 -  [H.R. 4851]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Continuing 
Extension Act of 2010.>> 
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Extension Act of 2010''.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--(1) Section 4007 of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``April 5, 2010'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``June 2, 2010'';
            (B) in the heading for subsection (b)(2), by striking 
        ``april 5, 2010'' and inserting ``june 2, 2010''; and
            (C) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``September 4, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``November 6, 2010''.

    (2) Section 2002(e) of the Assistance for Unemployed Workers and 
Struggling Families Act, as contained in Public Law 111-5 (26 U.S.C. 
3304 note; 123 Stat. 438), is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``April 5, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``June 2, 2010'';
            (B) in the heading for paragraph (2), by striking ``april 5, 
        2010'' and inserting ``june 2, 2010''; and
            (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``October 5, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``December 7, 2010''.

    (3) Section 2005 of the Assistance for Unemployed Workers and 
Struggling Families Act, as contained in Public Law 111-5 (26 U.S.C. 
3304 note; 123 Stat. 444), is amended--
            (A) by striking ``April 5, 2010'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``June 2, 2010''; and
            (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``September 4, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``November 6, 2010''.

    (4) Section 5 of the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008 
(Public Law 110-449; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended by striking 
``September 4, 2010'' and inserting ``November 6, 2010''.
    (b) Funding.--Section 4004(e)(1) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new 
        subparagraph:

[[Page 124 STAT. 1117]]

                    ``(E) the amendments made by section 2(a)(1) of the 
                Continuing Extension Act of 2010; and''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 26 USC 3304 note.>> amendments made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the 
Temporary Extension Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-144).
SEC. 3. EXTENSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF PREMIUM ASSISTANCE FOR COBRA 
                    BENEFITS.

    (a) Extension of Eligibility Period.--Subsection (a)(3)(A) of 
section 3001 of division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act 
of 2009 (Public Law 111-5), as amended by section 3(a) of the Temporary 
Extension Act of 2010 <<NOTE: 26 USC 6432 note.>> (Public Law 111-144), 
is amended by striking ``March 31, 2010'' and inserting ``May 31, 
2010''.

    (b) Rules Relating to 2010 Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 
3001 of division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 
(Public Law 111-5), as amended by section 3(b) of the Temporary 
Extension Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-144), is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
            ``(18) Rules related to april and may 2010 extension.--In 
        the case of an individual <<NOTE: Applicability.>> who, with 
        regard to coverage described in paragraph (10)(B), experiences a 
        qualifying event related to a termination of employment on or 
        after April 1, 2010 and prior to the date of the enactment of 
        this paragraph, rules similar to those in paragraphs (4)(A) and 
        (7)(C) shall apply with respect to all continuation coverage, 
        including State continuation coverage programs.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the provisions of section 3001 of division B of 
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
SEC. 4. INCREASE IN THE MEDICARE PHYSICIAN PAYMENT UPDATE.

    Paragraph (10) of section 1848(d) of the Social Security Act, as 
added by section 1011(a) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-118) and as amended by section 5 of the 
Temporary Extension Act of <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395w-4.>> 2010 (Public Law 
111-144), is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``March 31, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``May 31, 2010''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``April 1, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``June 1, 2010''.
SEC. 5. EHR CLARIFICATION.

    (a) Qualification for Clinic-based Physicians.--
            (1) Medicare.--Section 1848(o)(1)(C)(ii) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(o)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended by 
        striking ``setting (whether inpatient or outpatient)'' and 
        inserting ``inpatient or emergency room setting''.
            (2) Medicaid.--Section 1903(t)(3)(D) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(t)(3)(D)) is amended by striking ``setting 
        (whether inpatient or outpatient)'' and inserting ``inpatient or 
        emergency room setting''.

    (b) Effective <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395w-4 note.>> Date.--The amendments 
made by subsection (a) shall be effective as if included in the 
enactment of the HITECH Act (included in the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5)).

[[Page 124 STAT. 1118]]

    (c) Implementation.--Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395w-4 
note.>> any other provision of law, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services may implement the amendments made by this section by program 
instruction or otherwise.
SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF USE OF 2009 POVERTY GUIDELINES.

    Section 1012 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010 
(Public Law 111-118), as amended by section 7 of the Temporary Extension 
Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-144), <<NOTE: 123 Stat. 3474.>> is amended 
by striking ``March 31, 2010'' and inserting ``May 31, 2010''.
SEC. 7. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--Section 129 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2010 (Public Law 111-68), as amended by section 8 of Public 
Law 111-144, <<NOTE: 123 Stat. 2047.>> is amended by striking ``by 
substituting'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
inserting ``by substituting May 31, 2010, for the date specified in each 
such section.''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall be 
considered to have taken effect on February 28, 2010.
SEC. 8. <<NOTE: Time period.>> COMPENSATION AND RATIFICATION OF 
                    AUTHORITY RELATED TO LAPSE IN HIGHWAY 
                    PROGRAMS.

    (a) Compensation for Federal Employees.--Any Federal employees 
furloughed as a result of the lapse in expenditure authority from the 
Highway Trust Fund after 11:59 p.m. on February 28, 2010, through March 
2, 2010, shall be compensated for the period of that lapse at their 
standard rates of compensation, as determined under policies established 
by the Secretary of Transportation.
    (b) Ratification of Essential Actions.--All actions taken by Federal 
employees, contractors, and grantees for the purposes of maintaining the 
essential level of Government operations, services, and activities to 
protect life and property and to bring about orderly termination of 
Government functions during the lapse in expenditure authority from the 
Highway Trust Fund after 11:59 p.m. on February 28, 2010, through March 
2, 2010, are hereby ratified and approved if otherwise in accord with 
the provisions of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2010 
(division B of Public Law 111-68).
    (c) Funding.--Funds used by the Secretary to compensate employees 
described in subsection (a) shall be derived from funds previously 
authorized out of the Highway Trust Fund and made available or limited 
to the Department of Transportation by the Consolidated Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-117) and shall be subject to the obligation 
limitations established in such Act.
    (d) Expenditures From Highway Trust Fund.-- <<NOTE: Effective 
date.>> To permit expenditures from the Highway Trust Fund to effectuate 
the purposes of this section, this section shall be deemed to be a 
section of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2010 (division B of 
Public Law 111-68), as in effect on the date of the enactment of the 
last amendment to such Resolution.
SEC. 9. SATELLITE TELEVISION EXTENSION.

    (a) Amendments to Section 119 of Title 17, United States Code.--

[[Page 124 STAT. 1119]]

            (1) In general.--Section 119 of title 17, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1)(E), by striking ``April 30, 
                2010'' and inserting ``May 31, 2010''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``April 30, 
                2010'' and inserting ``May 31, 2010''.
            (2) Termination of license.--Section 1003(a)(2)(A) of Public 
        Law 111-118 <<NOTE: 17 USC 119 note.>> is amended by striking 
        ``April 30, 2010'', and inserting ``May 31, 2010''.

    (b) Amendments to Communications Act of 1934.--Section 325(b) of the 
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 325(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ``April 30, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``May 31, 2010''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ``May 1, 2010'' each 
        place it appears in clauses (ii) and (iii) and inserting ``June 
        1, 2010''.
SEC. 10. EXTENSION OF SMALL BUSINESS LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM.

    (a) Appropriation.--There is appropriated, out of any funds in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $80,000,000, for an additional 
amount for ``Small Business Administration--Business Loans Program 
Account'', to remain available until expended, for the cost of fee 
reductions and eliminations under section 501 of division A of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5; 123 
Stat. 151) and loan guarantees under section 502 of division A of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5; 123 
Stat. 152), as amended by this section:  Provided, That such costs shall 
be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    (b) Extension of Sunset Date.--Section 502(f) of division A of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5; 123 
Stat. 153) is amended by striking ``April 30, 2010'' and inserting ``May 
31, 2010''.
SEC. 11. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING A VALUE ADDED TAX.

    It is the sense of the Senate that the Value Added Tax is a massive 
tax increase that will cripple families on fixed income and only further 
push back America's economic recovery and the Senate opposes a Value 
Added Tax.
SEC. 12. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) In General.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose 
of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, 
provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on 
passage.
    (b) Emergency Designation for Congressional Enforcement.--This Act, 
with the exception of section 4, is designated as an emergency for 
purposes of pay-as-you-go principles. In the Senate, this Act is 
designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 403(a) of S. 
Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2010.

[[Page 124 STAT. 1120]]

    (c) Emergency Designation for Statutory PAYGO.--This Act, with the 
exception of section 4, is designated as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111-139; 2 U.S.C. 933(g)).

    Approved April 15, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4851 (S. 3153):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Mar. 17, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 13, 14, considered in Senate.
            Apr. 15, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>