[111th Congress Public Law 47]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 1972]]

Public Law 111-47
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2009 for the Consumer 
 Assistance to Recycle and Save Program. <<NOTE: Aug. 7, 2009 -  [H.R. 
                                3435]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,  That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

             consumer assistance to recycle and save program

                           (transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Consumer Assistance to Recycle and 
Save Program'' to carry out the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save 
Program established by the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act 
of 2009 (title XIII of Public Law 111-32), not to exceed $2,000,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2010: Provided, That such amount 
shall be available for such purpose only to the extent directed by the 
President, and shall be derived by transfer from the amount made 
available for ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Title 17--
Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program'' in title IV of division A 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-
5): Provided further, That the amount under this heading is designated 
as an emergency requirement and necessary to meet emergency needs 
pursuant to sections 403 and 423(b) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), 
the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
     Section 1302(g) of Public Law 111-32 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1913.>>  is 
amended by inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Review of administration of the program by government 
        accountability office and inspector general.--Not 
        later <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  than 180 days after the 
        termination date described in subsection (c)(1)(A), the 
        Government Accountability Office and the Inspector General of 
        the Department of Transportation shall submit reports to the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives 
        and

[[Page 123 STAT. 1973]]

        the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate reviewing the administration of the program.''.

    Approved August 7, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3435:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            July 31, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 6, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>