[111th Congress Public Law 158]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 1121]]

Public Law 111-158
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To urge the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the United States 
Executive Directors at the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, 
the Inter-American Development Bank, and other multilateral development 
institutions to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States 
to cancel immediately and completely Haiti's debts to such institutions, 
     and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 26, 2010 -  [H.R. 4573]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Haiti Debt 
Relief and Earthquake Recovery Act of 2010. 22 USC 261 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Haiti Debt Relief and Earthquake 
Recovery Act of 2010''.
SEC. 2. DEBT RELIEF FOR HAITI.

    Title XVI of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 
262p et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``SEC. 1628. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262p-12.>>  CANCELLATION OF HAITI'S 
                          DEBTS TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
                          INSTITUTIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury should direct the 
United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund, the 
International Development Association, the Inter-American Development 
Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, and other 
multilateral development institutions (as defined in section 1701(c)(3)) 
to use the voice, vote and influence of the United States at each such 
institution to seek to achieve--
            ``(1) the immediate and complete cancellation of any and all 
        remaining debts owed by Haiti to such institutions;
            ``(2) the suspension of Haiti's debt service payments to 
        such institutions until such time as the debts are canceled 
        completely; and
            ``(3) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the provision, before February 1, 
        2015, of emergency, humanitarian and reconstruction assistance 
        from such institutions to Haiti in the form of grants or other 
        assistance such that Haiti does not accumulate debt.

    ``(b) Use of Certain Funds for Assistance to Haiti.--The Secretary 
of the Treasury should instruct the United States Executive Director of 
the International Monetary Fund to advocate the use of some of the 
realized windfall profits that exceed the required contribution to the 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (as referenced in the IMF Reforms 
Financial Facilities for Low-Income Countries Public Information Notice 
(PIN) No. 09/94) from the ongoing sale of 12,965,649 ounces of gold 
acquired since the second Amendment of the Fund's Article of Agreement, 
to provide debt

[[Page 124 STAT. 1122]]

stock relief and debt service relief for Haiti and, before February 1, 
2015, to provide grants for Haiti.
    ``(c) Securing Other Relief for Haiti.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury and the Secretary of State should use all appropriate 
diplomatic influence to secure cancellation of any and all remaining 
bilateral, multilateral and private creditor debt owed by Haiti.''.
SEC. 3. INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT.

    (a) Trust Fund.--The Secretary of the Treasury should support the 
creation and utilization of a multilateral trust fund for Haiti that 
would leverage potential United States contributions and promote 
bilateral donations to such a fund for the purpose of making investments 
in Haiti's future and future generations, including efforts to combat 
soil degradation and promote reforestation and infrastructure 
investments such as electric grids, roads, water and sanitation 
facilities, and other critical infrastructure projects.
    (b) Increase in Transfer of Earnings.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
should direct the United States Executive Director of the Inter-American 
Development Bank to seek to increase the transfer of its earnings to the 
Fund for Special Operations and to a trust fund or grant facility for 
Haiti.

    Approved April 26, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4573:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Mar. 10, considered and passed House.
            Mar. 26, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Apr. 14, House concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>