[111th Congress Public Law 248]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 2625]]

Public Law 111-248
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To improve the operation of certain facilities and programs of the House 
     of Representatives, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 
                         2010 -  [H.R. 5682]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 2 USC 117m note.>> MEMBERSHIP IN HOUSE OF 
                              REPRESENTATIVES EXERCISE FACILITY 
                              FOR ACTIVE DUTY ARMED FORCES MEMBERS 
                              ASSIGNED TO CONGRESSIONAL LIAISON 
                              OFFICE.

    Any active duty member of the Armed Forces who is assigned to a 
congressional liaison office of the Armed Forces at the House of 
Representatives may obtain membership in the exercise facility 
established for employees of the House of Representatives (as described 
in section 103(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005) in 
the same manner as an employee of the House of Representatives, in 
accordance with such regulations as the Committee on House 
Administration may promulgate.
SEC. 2. REVOLVING FUND FOR HOUSE CHILD CARE CENTER.

    (a) Conversion of House Child Care Center Account Into Revolving 
Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 1992 (2 U.S.C. 2062(d)(1)) is amended to 
        read as follows:

    ``(1) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
revolving fund for the House of Representatives to be known as the 
`House Child Care Center Revolving Fund' (hereafter in this section 
referred to as the `Fund'), consisting of the amounts received under 
subsection (c) and any other funds deposited by the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives from amounts received by the 
House of Representatives with respect to the operation of the center. 
Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Fund shall be the 
exclusive source for all salaries and expenses for activities carried 
out under this section.''.
            (2) Transfer <<NOTE: 2 USC 2062 note.>> of existing 
        account.--Any amounts in the account established by section 
        312(d)(1) of such Act as of the day before the effective date of 
        this section, together with any amounts in the House Services 
        Revolving Fund as of the effective date of this section which, 
        at the time of deposit into the House Services Revolving Fund, 
        were designated for purposes of the House Child Care Center, 
        shall be transferred to the House Child Care Center Revolving 
        Fund established by such section, as amended by paragraph (1).

    (b) Transfer Authority.--Section 312 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 2062) is 
amended--

[[Page 124 STAT. 2626]]

            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(e) The Fund shall be treated as a category of allowances and 
expenses for purposes of section 101(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(a)).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--This <<NOTE: 2 USC 2062 note.>>  section and 
the amendments made by this section shall take effect October 1, 2010, 
and shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2011 and each succeeding 
fiscal year.
SEC. 3. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) The second undesignated paragraph under the heading ``Under 
Superintendent of the Capitol Buildings and Grounds'' in the Act of 
April 28, 1902 (chapter 594; 32 Stat. 125; 2 U.S.C. 2012) is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``The Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives 
shall supervise and direct the care and repair of all furniture in the 
Hall, cloakrooms, lobby, committee rooms, and offices of the House, and 
all furniture required for the House of Representatives or for any of 
its committee rooms or offices shall be procured on designs and 
specifications made or approved by the Chief Administrative Officer.''.
    (b) Effective <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 84-2 note.>> as if 
included in the enactment of Public Law 111-145, section 3 of House 
Resolution 661, Ninety-fifth Congress, agreed to July 29, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 
84-2), is restored into permanent law.
SEC. 4. PAYGO COMPLIANCE.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such 
statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

    Approved September 30, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5682:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 111-569 (Comm. on House Administration).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            July 27, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 22, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>