[111th Congress Public Law 322]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 3517]]

                     CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS AND 
                         SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
                          EXTENSIONS ACT, 2011

[[Page 124 STAT. 3518]]

Public Law 111-322
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2010, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 22, 
                         2010 -  [H.R. 3082]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Continuing 
Appropriations and Surface Transportation Extensions Act, 
2011. Continuing Appropriations Amendments, 2011.3Ante, p. 3454.>> 

              TITLE I--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS AMENDMENTS

  Section 1. (a) The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public Law 
111-242) is further amended by--
            (1) striking the date specified in section 106(3) and 
        inserting ``March 4, 2011''; and
            (2) adding the following:

    ``Sec. 147. (a) <<NOTE: Definitions. 5 USC 5303 note.>>  For the 
purposes of this section--
            ``(1) the term `employee'--
                    ``(A) means an employee as defined in section 2105 
                of title 5, United States Code; and
                    ``(B) includes an individual to whom subsection (b), 
                (c), or (f) of such section 2105 pertains (whether or 
                not such individual satisfies subparagraph (A));
            ``(2) the term `senior executive' means--
                    ``(A) a member of the Senior Executive Service under 
                subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
                Code;
                    ``(B) a member of the FBI-DEA Senior Executive 
                Service under subchapter III of chapter 31 of title 5, 
                United States Code;
                    ``(C) a member of the Senior Foreign Service under 
                chapter 4 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
                (22 U.S.C. 3961 and following); and
                    ``(D) a member of any similar senior executive 
                service in an Executive agency;
            ``(3) the term `senior-level employee' means an employee who 
        holds a position in an Executive agency and who is covered by 
        section 5376 of title 5, United States Code, or any similar 
        authority; and
            ``(4) the term `Executive agency' has the meaning given such 
        term by section 105 of title 5, United States Code.

    ``(b)(1) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, except as provided in subsection (e), no statutory pay 
adjustment which (but for this subsection) would otherwise take effect 
during the period beginning on January 1, 2011, and ending on December 
31, 2012, shall be made.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3519]]

    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `statutory pay 
adjustment' means--
            ``(A) an adjustment required under section 5303, 5304, 
        5304a, 5318, or 5343(a) of title 5, United States Code; and
            ``(B) any similar adjustment, required by statute, with 
        respect to employees in an Executive agency.

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, except as provided in subsection (e), during the period beginning 
on January 1, 2011, and ending on December 31, 2012, no senior executive 
or senior-level employee may receive an increase in his or her rate of 
basic pay absent a change of position that results in a substantial 
increase in responsibility, or a promotion.

    ``(d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  The President may issue guidance 
that Executive agencies shall apply in the implementation of this 
section.

    ``(e) <<NOTE: President. Applicability.>>  The Non-Foreign Area 
Retirement Equity Assurance Act of 2009 (5 U.S.C. 5304 note) shall be 
applied using the appropriate locality-based comparability payments 
established by the President as the applicable comparability payments in 
section 1914(2) and (3) of such Act.

    ``Sec. 148.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Department 
of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, 
Salaries and Expenses' shall be $40,649,000.
    ``Sec. 149.  The <<NOTE: Extensions.>>  following authorities shall 
continue in effect through the earlier of the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act or the date of enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011:
            ``(1) Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 
        Stat. 2042), as amended by section 1011 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
        Stat. 2441);
            ``(2) Section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 371 note), 
        as amended by section 1012 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2441);
            ``(3) Section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85), as amended by section 
        1014 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2442);
            ``(4) Sections 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 1106, 1222(e), 
        1224 and 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84);
            ``(5) Section 631 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181); and
            ``(6) Section 931 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364).

    ``Sec. 150.  Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary of the Navy may award a contract or contracts for up to 20 
Littoral Combat Ships (LCS).
    ``Sec. 151.  Section 8905a(d)(4)(B) of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended--
            ``(1) in clause (i), by striking `October 1, 2010' and 
        inserting `December 31, 2011'; and
            ``(2) in clause (ii)--
                    ``(A) by striking `February 1, 2011' and inserting 
                `February 1, 2012'; and

[[Page 124 STAT. 3520]]

                    ``(B) by striking `October 1, 2010' and inserting 
                `December 31, 2011'.

    ``Sec. 152.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Special 
Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, Salaries and 
Expenses' shall be $36,300,000.
    ``Sec. 153.  Public Law 111-240 is amended in section 1114 and 
section 1704 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 2508, 2553.>>  by striking `December 31, 
2010' and inserting `March 4, 2011' each time it appears and in section 
1704 by adding at the end the following:

    `` `(c) For purposes of the loans made under this section, the 
maximum guaranteed amount outstanding to the borrower may not exceed 
$4,500,000.'
    ``Sec. 154.  The appropriation to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission pursuant to this Act shall be deemed a regular appropriation 
for purposes of section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
77f(b)) and sections 13(e), 14(g), and 31 of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(e), 78n(g), and 78ee).
    ``Sec. 155.  Section 302 of the Universal Service Antideficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 3998.>>  is amended by 
striking `December 31, 2010' each place it appears and inserting 
`December 31, 2011'.

    ``Sec. 156.  Notwithstanding section 503 of Public Law 111-83, 
amounts made available in this Act for the Transportation Security 
Administration shall be available for transfer between and within 
Transportation Security Administration appropriations to the extent 
necessary to avoid furloughs or reduction in force, or to provide 
funding necessary for programs and activities required by law: Provided, 
That such transfers may not result in the termination of programs, 
projects or activities: <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  Provided 
further, That the House and Senate Appropriations Committees shall be 
notified within 15 days of such transfers.

    ``Sec. 157.  Up to $21,880,000 from `Coast Guard, Acquisition, 
Construction, and Improvements' and `Coast Guard, Alteration of Bridges' 
may be transferred to `Coast Guard, Operating Expenses': Provided, That 
the Coast Guard may decommission one Medium Endurance Cutter, two High 
Endurance Cutters, four HU-25 aircraft, the Maritime Intelligence Fusion 
Center, and one Maritime Safety and Security Team, and make staffing 
changes at the Coast Guard Investigative Service, as outlined in its 
budget justification documents for fiscal year 2011 as submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives.
    ``Sec. 158.  Notwithstanding section 101, the final proviso under 
the heading `Science and Technology, Research, Development, Acquisition, 
and Operations' in Public Law 111-83 (related to the National Bio- and 
Agro-defense Facility) shall have no effect with respect to all amounts 
available under this heading.
    ``Sec. 159.  Notwithstanding sections 101 and 128, amounts are 
provided for `Department of the Interior--Minerals Management Service--
Royalty and Offshore Minerals Management' in the manner authorized in 
Public Law 111-88 for fiscal year 2010, except that for fiscal year 2011 
the amounts specified in division A of Public Law 111-88 shall be 
modified by substituting--
            ``(1) `$200,110,000' for `$175,217,000';
            ``(2) `$102,231,000' for `$89,374,000';
            ``(3) `$154,890,000' for `$156,730,000' each place it 
        appears; and
            ``(4) `fiscal year 2011' shall be substituted for `fiscal 
        year 2010' each place it appears.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3521]]

    ``Sec. 160.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to implement a 
reorganization of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation, and 
Enforcement, may establish accounts, transfer funds among and between 
the offices and bureaus affected by the reorganization, and take any 
other administrative actions necessary in conformance with the 
Appropriations Committee reprogramming procedures described in the joint 
explanatory statement of the managers accompanying Public Law 111-88 
(House of Representatives Report 111-316).
    ``Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding section 101, section 423 of Public Law 
111-88 (123 Stat. 2961), concerning the distribution of geothermal 
energy receipts, shall have no force or effect and the provisions of 
section 3003(a) of Public Law 111-212 (124 Stat. 2338) shall apply for 
fiscal year 2011.
    ``Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding section 109, of the funds made 
available by section 101 for payments under subsections (b) and (d) of 
section 2602 of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, the 
Department of Health and Human Services shall obligate the same amount 
during the period covered by this continuing resolution as was obligated 
for such purpose during the comparable period during fiscal year 2010.
    ``Sec. 163. (a) <<NOTE: 20 USC 7801 note.>>  A `highly qualified 
teacher' includes a teacher who meets the requirements in 34 CFR 
200.56(a)(2)(ii), as published in the Federal Register on December 2, 
2002.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  This provision is effective on the 
date of enactment of this provision through the end of the 2012-2013 
academic year.

    ``Sec. 164. (a) <<NOTE: Grants.>>  Notwithstanding section 101, the 
level for `Department of Education, Student Financial Assistance' to 
carry out subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
1965 shall be $23,162,000,000.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: 20 USC 1070a note.>>  The maximum Pell Grant for which 
a student shall be eligible during award year 2011-2012 shall be $4,860.

    ``Sec. 165. (a) Notwithstanding section 1018(d) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1907(d)), the use of any funds 
appropriated to the United States Capitol Police during fiscal year 2003 
for transfer relating to the Truck Interdiction Monitoring Program to 
the working capital fund established under section 328 of title 49, 
United States Code, is ratified.
    ``(b) Nothing in subsection (a) may be construed to waive sections 
1341, 1342, 1349, 1350, or 1351 of title 31, United States Code, or 
subchapter II of chapter 15 of such title (commonly known as the `Anti-
Deficiency Act').
    ``(c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Notwithstanding section 106 of this 
Act, the use of the funds described under subsection (a) of this section 
shall apply without fiscal year limitation.

    ``Sec. 166.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Veterans Affairs, Departmental Administration, General 
Operating Expenses' at a rate for operations of $2,546,276,000, of which 
not less than $2,148,776,000 shall be for the Veterans Benefits 
Administration.''.
    (b) This section may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations 
Amendments, 2011''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3522]]

TITLE <<NOTE: Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010, Part II.>>  
II--EXTENSION OF CURRENT SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS
SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE; RECONCILIATION OF FUNDS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 23 USC 101 note.>>  This title may be cited as the 
``Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010, Part II''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Reconciliation of Funds.--The Secretary 
of Transportation shall reduce the amount apportioned or allocated for a 
program, project, or activity under this title in fiscal year 2011 by 
amounts apportioned or allocated pursuant to the Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 2010 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and 
ending on December 31, 2010.

                    Subtitle A--Federal-Aid Highways

SEC. 2101. EXTENSION OF FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAY PROGRAMS.

     (a) In General.--Section 411 of the Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-147; 124 Stat. 78) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  by striking ``the period 
        beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010'' 
        each place it appears (except in subsection (c)(2)) and 
        inserting ``the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending 
        on March 4, 2011'';
            (2) in subsection (a) by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``March 4, 2011'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(2) by striking ``\1/4\'' and inserting 
        ``\155/365\'';
            (4) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) by striking ``\1/4\'' and inserting 
                      ``\155/365\''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``the period beginning on 
                      October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
                      2010,'' and inserting ``the period beginning on 
                      October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A)(ii) by striking ``\1/
                      4\'' and inserting ``\155/365\''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B)(ii)(II) by striking 
                      ``$159,750,000'' and inserting ``$271,356,164''; 
                      and
                    (C) in paragraph (5) by striking ``\1/4\'' and 
                inserting ``\155/365\'';
            (5) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``\1/4\'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``\155/365\''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                          (i) in the matter preceding clause (i) by 
                      striking ``apportioned under sections 104(b) and 
                      144 of title 23, United States Code,'' and 
                      inserting ``specified in section 105(a)(2) of 
                      title 23, United States Code (except the high 
                      priority projects program),''; and
                          (ii) in clause (ii) by striking ``apportioned 
                      under such sections of such Code'' and inserting 
                      ``specified

[[Page 124 STAT. 3523]]

                      in such section 105(a)(2) (except the high 
                      priority projects program)''; and
            (6) in subsection (e)(1)(B) by striking ``\1/4\'' and 
        inserting ``\155/365\''.

    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Section 412(a)(2) of the Surface 
Transportation Extension Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-147; 124 Stat. 83) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$105,606,250'' and inserting 
        ``$179,385,959''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  by striking ``the period 
        beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and 
        ending on March 4, 2011''.

   Subtitle B--Extension of <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  National Highway 
      Traffic Safety Administration, Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration, and Additional Programs
SEC. 2201. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY 
                          ADMINISTRATION HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Chapter 4 Highway Safety Programs.--Section 2001(a)(1) of 
SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1519) is amended by striking ``and $58,750,000 for 
the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
2010.'' and inserting ``and $99,795,000 for the period beginning on 
October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (b) Highway Safety Research and Development.--Section 2001(a)(2) of 
SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1519) is amended by striking ``and $27,061,000 for 
the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
2010.'' and inserting ``and $45,967,000 for the period beginning on 
October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (c) Occupant Protection Incentive Grants.--Section 2001(a)(3) of 
SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1519) is amended by striking ``and $6,250,000 for 
the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
2010.'' and inserting ``and $10,616,000 for the period beginning on 
October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (d) Safety Belt Performance Grants.--Section 2001(a)(4) of SAFETEA-
LU (119 Stat. 1519) is amended by striking ``and $31,125,000 for the 
period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' 
and inserting ``and $52,870,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 
2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (e) State Traffic Safety Information System Improvements.--Section 
2001(a)(5) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1519) is amended by striking ``and 
$8,625,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on 
December 31, 2010.'' and inserting ``and $14,651,000 for the period 
beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (f) Alcohol-impaired Driving Countermeasures Incentive Grant 
Program.--Section 2001(a)(6) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1519) is amended 
by striking ``and $34,750,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 
2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and

[[Page 124 STAT. 3524]]

inserting ``and $59,027,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, 
and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (g) National Driver Register.--Section 2001(a)(7) of SAFETEA-LU (119 
Stat. 1520) is amended by striking ``and $1,029,000 for the period 
beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and 
inserting ``and $1,748,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, 
and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (h) High Visibility Enforcement Program.--Section 2001(a)(8) of 
SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1520) is amended by striking ``and $7,250,000 for 
the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
2010.'' and inserting ``and $12,315,000 for the period beginning on 
October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (i) Motorcyclist Safety.--Section 2001(a)(9) of SAFETEA-LU (119 
Stat. 1520) is amended by striking ``and $1,750,000 for the period 
beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and 
inserting ``and $2,973,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, 
and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (j) Child Safety and Child Booster Seat Safety Incentive Grants.--
Section 2001(a)(10) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1520) is amended by 
striking ``and $1,750,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, 
and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and inserting ``and $2,973,000 for 
the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (k) Administrative Expenses.--Section 2001(a)(11) of SAFETEA-LU (119 
Stat. 1520) is amended by striking ``and $6,332,000 for the period 
beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and 
inserting ``and $10,756,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, 
and ending on March 4, 2011.''.
SEC. 2202. EXTENSION OF FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY 
                          ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Motor Carrier Safety Grants.--Section 31104(a)(7) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``$52,679,000 for the period 
beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and 
inserting ``$88,753,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and 
ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (b) Administrative Expenses.--Section 31104(i)(1)(G) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``$61,036,000 for the period 
beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and 
inserting ``$103,678,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and 
ending on March 4, 2011.''.
    (c) Grant Programs.--Section 4101(c) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1715) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' after ``2009,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and $6,301,000 for the period 
                beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
                2010.'' and inserting ``and $10,616,000 for the period 
                beginning October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 
                2011.'';
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``and $8,066,000 for the 
        period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
        2010.'' and inserting ``and $13,589,000 for the period beginning 
        October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.'';

[[Page 124 STAT. 3525]]

            (3) in paragraph (3) by striking ``and $1,260,000 for the 
        period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
        2010.'' and inserting ``and $2,123,000 for the period beginning 
        October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.'';
            (4) in paragraph (4) by striking ``and $6,301,000 for the 
        period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
        2010.'' and inserting ``and $10,616,000 for the period beginning 
        October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''; and
            (5) in paragraph (5) by striking ``and $756,000 for the 
        period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 
        2010.'' and inserting ``and $1,274,000 for the period beginning 
        October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011.''.

    (d) High-Priority Activities.--Section 31104(k)(2) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``2009, $15,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2010, and $3,781,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 
2010, and ending on December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``2010 and 
$6,370,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending on March 
4, 2011''.
    (e) New Entrant Audits.--Section 31144(g)(5)(B) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``(and up to $7,310,000 for the 
period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010)'' 
and inserting ``(and up to $12,315,000 for the period beginning October 
1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011)''.
    (f) <<NOTE: 49 USC 31309 note.>>  Commercial Driver's License 
Information System Modernization.--Section 4123(d)(6) of SAFETEA-LU (119 
Stat. 1736) is amended by striking ``$2,016,000 for the period beginning 
on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010.'' and inserting 
``and $3,397,260 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending on 
March 4, 2011.''.

    (g) <<NOTE: 49 USC 31100 note.>>  Outreach and Education.--Section 
4127(e) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1741) is amended by striking ``and 
2010'' and all that follows before ``to carry out'' and inserting 
``2010, and $425,545 to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 
and $1,274,000 to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 
2011,''.

    (h) <<NOTE: 49 USC 31301 note.>>  Grant Program for Commercial Motor 
Vehicle Operators.--Section 4134(c) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1744) is 
amended by striking ``$252,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 
2010, and ending on December 31, 2010,'' and inserting ``$425,545 for 
the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011,''.

    (i) <<NOTE: 49 USC 31100 note.>>  Motor Carrier Safety Advisory 
Committee.--Section 4144(d) of SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1748) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.

    (j) Working Group for Development of Practices and Procedures To 
Enhance Federal-State Relations.--Section 4213(d) of SAFETEA-LU (49 
U.S.C. 14710 note; 119 Stat. 1759) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.
SEC. 2203. ADDITIONAL PROGRAMS.

    (a) Hazardous Materials Research Projects.--Section 7131(c) of 
SAFETEA-LU (119 Stat. 1910) is amended by striking ``through 2010'' and 
all that follows before ``shall be available''

[[Page 124 STAT. 3526]]

and inserting ``through 2010 and $531,000 for the period beginning on 
October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011''.
    (b) Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act.--Section 4 of the 
Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``For each of fiscal years 
        2006'' and all that follows before paragraph (1) and inserting 
        the following: ``For each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010, and 
        for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 
        4, 2011, the balance of each annual appropriation made in 
        accordance with the provisions of section 3 remaining after the 
        distributions for administrative expenses and other purposes 
        under subsection (b) and for multistate conservation grants 
        under section 14 shall be distributed as follows:''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A) by striking the first sentence 
        and inserting the following: ``From the annual appropriation 
        made in accordance with section 3, for each of fiscal years 2006 
        through 2010, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, 
        and ending on March 4, 2011, the Secretary of the Interior may 
        use no more than the amount specified in subparagraph (B) for 
        the fiscal year for expenses for administration incurred in the 
        implementation of this Act, in accordance with this section and 
        section 9.''.

    (c) Surface Transportation Project Delivery Pilot Program.--Section 
327(i)(1) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by striking ``6 
years after'' and inserting ``7 years after''.
    (d) Implementation of Future Strategic Highway Research Program.--
Section 510 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(h) Implementation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
section, the Secretary may use funds made available to carry out this 
section for implementation of research products related to the future 
strategic highway research program, including development, 
demonstration, evaluation, and technology transfer activities.''.

               Subtitle C--Public Transportation Programs

SEC. 2301. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR PLANNING PROGRAMS.

    Section 5305(g) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.
SEC. 2302. SPECIAL RULE FOR URBANIZED FORMULA GRANTS.

    Section 5307(b)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``December 31, 
        2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``December 31, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``March 4, 2011''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (E)--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``December 
                31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''; and
                    (B) in the matter preceding clause (i) by striking 
                ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3527]]

SEC. 2303. ALLOCATING AMOUNTS FOR CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS.

    Section 5309(m) of such title is amended--
            (1) In paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading by striking ``December 
                31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (A) by 
                striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 
                2011''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking 
                ``$50,000,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, 
                and ending December 31, 2010'' and inserting 
                ``$84,931,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010 
                and ending March 4, 2011''.
            (2) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``$3,750,000 
                shall be available for the period beginning October 1, 
                2010 and ending December 31, 2010'' and inserting 
                ``$6,369,000 shall be available for the period beginning 
                October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 2011'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (C) by striking ``$1,250,000 
                shall be available for the period beginning October 1, 
                2010 and ending December 31, 2010'' and inserting 
                ``$2,123,000 shall be available for the period beginning 
                October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 2011''.
            (3) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) in clause (ii) of subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) in the clause heading, by striking 
                      ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 
                      2011'';
                          (ii) by striking ``$2,500,000 shall be 
                      available for the period beginning October 1, 2010 
                      and ending December 31, 2010'' and inserting 
                      ``$4,246,000 shall be available for the period 
                      beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                      2011'';
                          (iii) by striking ``25 percent'' and inserting 
                      ``\155/365\ths''.
            (4) in subparagraph (B), by amending clause (vi) to read, 
        ``$5,732,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
        March 4, 2011''.
            (5) in subparagraph (C) by striking ``December 31, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.
            (6) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``$8,750,000 shall be 
        available for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
        December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$14,863,000 shall be 
        available for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
        March 4, 2011'';
            (7) in subparagraph (E) by striking ``$750,000 shall be 
        available for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
        December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$1,273,000 shall be 
        available for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
        March 4, 2011''.
SEC. 2304. APPORTIONMENT OF FORMULA GRANTS FOR OTHER THAN 
                          URBANIZED AREAS.

    Section 5311(c)(1)(F) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
                    ``(F) $6,369,000 for the period beginning October 1, 
                2010 and ending March 4, 2011.''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3528]]

SEC. 2305. APPORTIONMENT BASED ON FIXED GUIDEWAY FACTORS.

    Section 5337(g) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(g) Special Rule for October 1, 2010, Through March 4, 2011.--The 
Secretary shall apportion amounts made available for fixed guideway 
modernization under section 5309 for the period beginning October 1, 
2010, and ending March 4, 2011, in accordance with subsection (a), 
except that the Secretary shall apportion \155/365\ths of each dollar 
amount specified in subsection (a).''.
SEC. 2306. AUTHORIZATIONS FOR PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.

    (a) Formula and Bus Grants.--Section 5338(b) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (1)(F) as follows:
                    ``(F) $3,550,376,000 for the period beginning 
                October 1, 2010, and ending March 4, 2011.''.
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``$28,375,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$48,198,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``$1,040,091,250 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$1,766,730,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending March 
                4, 2011'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (C) by striking ``$12,875,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$21,869,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (D) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``$416,625,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$707,691,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (E) in subparagraph (E) by striking ``$246,000,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$417,863,000 for the 
                period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (F) in subparagraph (F) by striking ``$33,375,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$56,691,000 for the 
                period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (G) in subparagraph (G) by striking ``$116,250,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$197,465,000 for the 
                period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (H) in subparagraph (H) by striking ``$41,125,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$69,856,000 for the 
                period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (I) in subparagraph (I) by striking ``$23,125,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``$39,280,000 for the 
                period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011'';
                    (J) in subparagraph (J) by striking ``$6,725,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending December

[[Page 124 STAT. 3529]]

                31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$11,423,000 for the period 
                beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 2011'';
                    (K) in subparagraph (K) by striking ``$875,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending December 
                31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$1,486,000 for the period 
                beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 2011'';
                    (L) in subparagraph (L) by striking ``$6,250,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending December 
                31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$10,616,000 for the period 
                beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 2011'';
                    (M) in subparagraph (M) by striking ``$116,250,000 
                for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending 
                December 31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$197,465,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 
                2011''; and
                    (N) in subparagraph (N) by striking ``$2,200,000 for 
                the period beginning October 1, 2010 and ending December 
                31, 2010'' and by inserting ``$3,736,000 for the period 
                beginning October 1, 2010 and ending March 4, 2011''.

    (b) Capital Investment Grants.--Section 5338(c)(6) of title 49 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(6) $849,315,000 for the period of October 1, 2010 through 
        March 4, 2011.''.

    (c) Research and University Research Centers.--Section 5338(d) of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``$17,437,500 for the period beginning October 
        1, 2010, and ending December 31, 2010'' and inserting 
        ``$29,619,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010 and 
        ending March 4, 2011'';
            (2) paragraph (3)(A)(ii) is amended to read as follows:
                          ``(ii) October 1, 2010 through march 4, 
                      2011.--Of amounts authorized to be appropriated 
                      for the period beginning October 1, 2010, through 
                      March 4, 2011, under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                      shall allocate for each of the activities and 
                      projects described in subparagraphs (A) through 
                      (F) of paragraph (1) an amount equal to \155/
                      365\ths of the amount allocated for fiscal year 
                      2009 under each such subparagraph.''.
            (3) Paragraph (3)(B)(ii) is amended to read as follows:
                          ``(ii) October 1, 2010 through march 4, 
                      2011.--Of the amounts allocated under subparagraph 
                      (A)(i) for the university centers program under 
                      section 5506 for the period beginning October 1, 
                      2010, and ending March 4, 2011, the Secretary 
                      shall allocate for each program described in 
                      clauses (i) through (iii) and (v) through (viii) 
                      of paragraph (2)(A) an amount equal to \155/
                      365\ths of the amount allocated for fiscal year 
                      2009 under each such clause.''.
            (4) In clause (3)(B)(iii)--
                    (A) by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2011''; and
                    (B) by striking ``2009'' and inserting ``2010''.

    (d) Administration.--Section 5338(e)(6) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows--
            ``(6) $42,003,000 for the period of October 1, 2010 through 
        March 4, 2011.''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3530]]

SEC. 2307. AMENDMENTS TO SAFETEA-LU.

    (a) Contracted Paratransit Pilot.--Section 3009(i)(1) of SAFETEA-LU 
(Public Law 109-59; 119 Stat. 1572) is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.
    (b) Public-Private Partnership Pilot Program.--Section 3011 of 
SAFETEA-LU (49 U.S.C. 5309 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(5), by striking ``December 31, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``March 4, 2011''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``March 4, 2011''.

    (c) Elderly Individuals and Individuals With Disabilities Pilot 
Program.--Section 3012(b)(8) of SAFETEA-LU (49 U.S.C. 5310 note) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 
2011''.
    (d) Obligation Ceiling.--Section 3040(7) of SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 
109-59; 119 Stat. 1639, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(7) $4,462,196,000 for the period beginning October 1, 
        2010, and ending March 4, 2011, of which not more than 
        $3,550,376,000 shall be from the Mass Transit Account.''.

    (e) Project Authorizations for New Fixed Guideway Capital 
Projects.--Section 3043 of SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 109-59; 119 Stat. 
1640) is amended in subsections (b) and (c) by striking ``December 31, 
2010'' and inserting ``March 4, 2011''.
    (f) <<NOTE: 49 USC 5338 note.>>  Allocations for National Research 
and Technology Programs.--Section 3046 of SAFETEA-LU (49 U.S.C. 5338; 
119 Stat. 1706) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``December 31, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``March 4, 2011'', and by striking ``25 percent'' 
        and inserting ``\155/365\ths''.
            (2) In subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2011''; and
                    (B) by striking ``2009'' and inserting ``2010''.
SEC. 2308. LEVEL OF OBLIGATION LIMITATIONS.

    (a) Highway Category.--Section 8003(a) of SAFETEA-LU (2 U.S.C. 901 
note; 119 Stat. 1917) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6) by striking ``for the period beginning 
        on October 1, 2009, and ending on September 30, 2010,'' and 
        inserting ``for fiscal year 2010,''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the following:
            ``(7) for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
        on March 4, 2011, $18,035,192,815.''.

    (b) Mass Transit Category.--Section 8003(b) of SAFETEA-LU (2 U.S.C. 
901 note; 119 Stat. 1917) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6) by striking ``for the period beginning 
        on October 1, 2009, and ending on December 31, 2010,'' and 
        inserting ``for fiscal year 2010,''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the following:
            ``(7) for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending 
        on March 4, 2011, $4,390,137,192.''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 3531]]

             Subtitle D--Extension of Expenditure Authority

SEC. 2401. EXTENSION OF EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.

    (a) Highway Trust Fund.--Section 9503 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503.>>  is amended--
            (1) by striking ``December 31, 2010 (January 1, 2011, in the 
        case of expenditures for administrative expenses)'' in 
        subsections (b)(6)(B) and (c)(1) and inserting ``March 5, 
        2011'';
            (2) by striking ``the Surface Transportation Extension Act 
        of 2010'' in subsections (c)(1) and (e)(3) and inserting ``the 
        Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010, Part II''; and
            (3) by striking ``January 1, 2011'' in subsection (e)(3) and 
        inserting ``March 5, 2011''.

    (b) Sport Fish Restoration and Boating Trust Fund.--Section 9504 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9504.>>  is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
        2010'' each place it appears in subsection (b)(2) and inserting 
        ``Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2010, Part II''; and
            (2) by striking ``January 1, 2011'' in subsection (d)(2) and 
        inserting ``March 5, 2011''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on December 31, 2010.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations and Surface 
Transportation Extensions Act, 2011''.

    Approved December 22, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3082 (S. 1407):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 111-188 (Comm. on Appropriations).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-40 (Comm. on Appropriations) accompanying S. 
1407.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 155 (2009):
                                    July 10, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                    Nov. 5, 6, 9, 10, 16, 17, considered 
                                        and passed Senate, amended.
                                                        Vol. 156 (2010):
                                    Dec. 8, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment with an amendment.
                                    Dec. 19, Senate considered 
                                        concurring in House amendment 
                                        with an amendment.
                                    Dec. 21, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment with an amendment. 
                                        House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>