[111th Congress Public Law 177]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 1260]]

Public Law 111-177
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the International Organizations Immunities Act to be 
    extended to the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and 
          Herzegovina and the International Civilian Office in 
             Kosovo. <<NOTE: June 8, 2010 -  [H.R. 5139]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Extending Immunities to the 
Office of the High Representa- tive in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 
Inter- national Civilian Office in Kosovo Act of 2010. 22 USC 288 
note.>> assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Extending Immunities to the Office of 
the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International 
Civilian Office in Kosovo Act of 2010''.
SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO EXTEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL 
                    ORGANIZATIONS IMMUNITIES ACT TO THE OFFICE OF 
                    THE HIGH REPRESENTATIVE IN BOSNIA AND 
                    HERZEGOVINA AND THE INTERNATIONAL CIVILIAN 
                    OFFICE IN KOSOVO.

    The International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
    ``Sec. 17.  <<NOTE: 22 USC 288f-7.>>  The provisions of this title 
may be extended to the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina (and to its officers and employees) or the International 
Civilian Office in Kosovo (and to its officers and employees) in the 
same manner, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions, as 
such provisions may be extended to a public international organization 
in which the United States participates pursuant to any treaty or under 
the authority of any Act of Congress authorizing such participation or 
making an appropriation for such participation. Any such extension may 
provide for the provisions of this title to continue to extend to the 
Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina (and to its 
officers and employees) or the International Civilian Office in Kosovo 
(and to its officers and employees) after that Office has been 
dissolved.''.
SEC. 3. BUDGET COMPLIANCE.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the

[[Page 124 STAT. 1261]]

Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, 
provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on 
passage.

    Approved June 8, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5139:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            May 19, considered and passed House.
            May 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>