[111th Congress Public Law 68]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 2023]]

Public Law 111-68
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
   ending September 30, 2010, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 1, 
                         2009 -  [H.R. 2918]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 

                               references

    Sec. 1.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' or ``this joint resolution'' contained in any division of 
this Act shall be treated as referring only to the provisions of that 
division.

DIVISION A--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH <<NOTE: Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2010.>> APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010

    
That <<NOTE: 2 USC 60a note.>> the following sums are appropriated, out 
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and 
for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

       Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

     <<NOTE: Victoria Reggie Kennedy.>> For a payment to Victoria Reggie 
Kennedy, widow of Edward M. Kennedy, late a Senator from Massachussetts, 
$174,000.

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $20,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $40,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$40,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $40,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $10,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $10,000; Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; 
and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, $5,000 for 
each Chairman; in all, $180,000.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2024]]

     Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $178,982,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the following limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,517,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $752,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $5,212,000.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,288,000.

                       committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $15,844,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,726,000 for each such committee; in all, $3,452,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $850,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,763,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,526,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $415,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $25,790,000.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2025]]

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $70,000,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,836,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $45,500,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $7,154,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,544,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                              of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,500; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,500; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $7,500; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,500; in all, $30,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and Rescission 
Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 96th Congress, 
agreed to March 11, 1980, $140,500,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $520,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$2,000,000.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2026]]

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $153,601,000, which shall remain available until September 
30, 2014.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $19,145,000, of which up to $500,000 shall 
be made available for a pilot program for mailings of postal patron 
postcards by Senators for the purpose of providing notice of a town 
meeting by a Senator in a county (or equivalent unit of local 
government) at which the Senator will personally attend: Provided, That 
any amount allocated to a Senator for such mailing shall not exceed 50 
percent of the cost of the mailing and the remaining cost shall be paid 
by the Senator from other funds available to the Senator.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$422,000,000.

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

            gross rate of compensation in offices of senators

    Sec. 1.  <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 61-1 and note.>> Effective 
on and after October 1, 2009, each of the dollar amounts contained in 
the table under section 105(d)(1)(A) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) shall be deemed to be 
the dollar amounts in that table, as adjusted by law and in effect on 
September 30, 2009, increased by an additional $50,000 each.


                          reporting requirement


    Sec. 2. Section 105(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act 
1965 (Public Law 88-454; 2 U.S.C. 104a) is amended--
            (1) in the last sentence of paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``shall'' and inserting ``may''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(6) Beginning with the report covering the first full semiannual 
period of the 112th Congress, the Secretary of the Senate--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Web posting.>> shall publicly post on-line on 
        the website of the Senate each report in a searchable, itemized 
        format as required under this section;
            ``(2) shall issue each report required under this section in 
        electronic form; and
            ``(3) may issue each report required under this section in 
        other forms at the discretion of the Secretary of the Senate.''.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2027]]

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,369,025,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $25,881,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $5,077,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,530,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $4,565,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $2,194,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $1,690,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $517,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $981,000; Republican Conference, $1,748,000; Republican 
Policy Committee, $362,000; Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, 
$1,366,000; Democratic Caucus, $1,725,000; nine minority employees, 
$1,552,000; training and program development--majority, $290,000; 
training and program development--minority, $290,000; Cloakroom 
Personnel--majority, $497,000; and Cloakroom Personnel--minority, 
$497,000.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    including members' clerk hire, official expenses of members, and 
                              official mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $660,000,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 standing committees, special and select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $139,878,000: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2010, except that $1,000,000 of such amount shall remain 
available until expended for committee room upgrading.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$31,300,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2010.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2028]]

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $198,301,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $23,000, of which not 
more than $20,000 is for the Family Room, for official representation 
and reception expenses, $30,089,000 of which $2,600,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of Garages, 
and including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $9,509,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Chief Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $130,782,000, of which 
$3,937,000 shall remain available until expended; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $5,045,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Emergency Planning, Preparedness 
and Operations, $4,445,000, to remain available until expended; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $1,415,000; for 
the Office of the Chaplain, $179,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 for 
preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, $2,060,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, 
$3,258,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative 
Counsel of the House, $8,814,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $859,000; for other authorized 
employees, $1,249,000; and for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Historian, including the cost of the House Fellows Program 
(including lodging and related expenses for visiting Program 
participants), $597,000.

                         Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $313,665,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $3,948,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $201,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $276,703,000, including employee 
tuition assistance benefit payments, $3,500,000, if authorized, and 
employee child care benefit payments, $1,000,000, if authorized; 
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, $25,098,000, of which 
$5,425,000 shall remain available until expended; transition activities 
for new members and staff, $2,907,000; Wounded Warrior Program, 
$2,500,000, to be derived from funding provided for this purpose in 
Division G of Public Law 111-8; Office of Congressional Ethics, 
$1,548,000; Energy Demonstration Projects, $2,500,000, if authorized, to 
remain available until expended; and miscellaneous items including 
purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor 
vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of 
deceased employees of the House, $760,000.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2029]]

                            Child Care Center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (2 
U.S.C. 2062), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances to Be Used for Deficit Reduction or to 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``House of Representatives--
Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational Allowances'' shall be 
available only for fiscal year 2010. Any amount remaining after all 
payments are made under such allowances for fiscal year 2010 shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, if there 
is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for 
reducing the Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the 
Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the House 
of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
    Sec. 102.  <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-10b.>> Effective with respect to fiscal 
year 2010 and each succeeding fiscal year, the aggregate amount 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year for the lump-
sum allowance for each of the following offices is increased as follows:
            (1) The allowance for the office of the Majority Whip is 
        increased by $96,000.
            (2) The allowance for the office of the Minority Whip is 
        increased by $96,000.

                          house fitness center

    Sec. 103.  Any active duty member of the Armed Forces who is 
assigned to a congressional liaison office of the Armed Forces at the 
House of Representatives may obtain membership in the exercise facility 
established for employees of the House of Representatives (as described 
in section 103(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005) in 
the same manner as an employee of the House of Representatives, in 
accordance with such regulations as the Committee on House 
Administration may promulgate.
    Sec. 104. (a) Section 101(d) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(d)), as added by section 103(a) 
of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2009, is amended by 
striking ``and made available'' and inserting ``and merged with and made 
available''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 956 note.>> The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply to funds appropriated for fiscal year 2010 
and succeeding fiscal years.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2030]]

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,814,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$11,327,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives. For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
Officer; (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (4) an 
allowance of $725 per month to two assistants and $580 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (5) $2,366,000 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $3,805,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,377,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, 
hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, 
and other applicable employee benefits, $265,188,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the

[[Page 123 STAT. 2031]]

awards program, postage, communication services, travel advances, 
relocation of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on 
the certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $63,130,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for fiscal year 2010 shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland 
Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                        Administrative Provision

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1001.  Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2010 for the 
Capitol Police may be transferred between the headings ``Salaries'' and 
``General expenses'' upon the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $4,377,000, of which $884,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2011: Provided, That not more than $500 may be expended on 
the certification of the Executive Director of the Office of Compliance 
in connection with official representation and reception expenses.

                        Administrative Provision

          disposition of surplus or obsolete personal property

    Sec. 1101. (a) In General.--Title III of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 305 the following:
``SEC. 306. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1386.>> DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS OR 
                        OBSOLETE PERSONAL PROPERTY.

    ``The Executive Director may, within the limits of available 
appropriations, dispose of surplus or obsolete personal property by 
interagency transfer, donation, or discarding.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for 
the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 305 the following:

``Sec. 306. Disposition of surplus or obsolete personal property.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 2 USC 1386 note.>> Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2010, and each 
fiscal year thereafter.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2032]]

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $45,165,000.

                        Administrative Provision

     executive exchange program for the congressional budget office

    Sec. 1201.  Section 1201 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (2 U.S.C. 611 note; Public law 110-161; 121 Stat. 2238) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``3'' and 
                inserting ``5''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``3'' and 
                inserting ``5'';
            (2) by striking subsection (d), and redesignating subsection 
        (e) as subsection (d); and
            (3) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by this section), by 
        striking ``Subject to subsection (d), this'' and inserting 
        ``This''.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $106,783,000, of which $5,400,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2014.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $33,182,000, of which $6,499,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2014.

                             Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings,

[[Page 123 STAT. 2033]]

and the Capitol Power Plant, $10,974,000, of which $1,410,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014.

                         Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$74,392,000, of which $15,390,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2014.

                         House Office Buildings

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation of 
the House office buildings, $100,466,000, of which $53,360,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014.
    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                           Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $119,133,000, of which $25,610,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2014: Provided, That not more than $8,000,000 of the 
funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2010.

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$45,795,000, of which $19,560,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2014.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $27,012,000, of which $8,150,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2014.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2034]]

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $11,390,000, of which $900,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2014: Provided, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, the Architect may obligate and expend 
such sums as may be necessary for the maintenance, care and operation of 
the National Garden established under section 307E of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved 
by the Architect or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $22,459,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

          disposition of surplus or obsolete personal property

    Sec. 1301. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1817a.>> (a) In General.--The Architect of 
the Capitol shall have the authority, within the limits of available 
appropriations, to dispose of surplus or obsolete personal property by 
inter-agency transfer, donation, sale, trade-in, or discarding. Amounts 
received for the sale or trade-in of personal property shall be credited 
to funds available for the operations of the Architect of the Capitol 
and be available for the costs of acquiring the same or similar 
property. Such funds shall be available for such purposes during the 
fiscal year received and the following fiscal year.

    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to fiscal 
year 2010, and each fiscal year thereafter.

                 flexible and compressed work schedules

    Sec. 1302.  Chapter 61 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 6121(1) by striking ``and the Library of 
        Congress'' and inserting ``the Library of Congress, the 
        Architect of the Capitol, and the Botanic Garden''; and
            (2) in section 6133(c) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) With respect to employees of the Architect of the 
        Capitol and the Botanic Garden, the authority granted to the 
        Office of Personnel Management under this subchapter shall be 
        exercised by the Architect of the Capitol.''.

                acceptance of voluntary student services

    Sec. 1303. (a) Section 3111 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) For purposes of this section the term `agency' shall include 
the Architect of the Capitol. With respect to the Architect of the 
Capitol, the authority granted to the Office of Personnel Management 
under this section shall be exercised by the Architect of the 
Capitol.''.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2035]]

           house historic buildings revitalization trust fund

    Sec. 1304. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1870.>> (a) Establishment.--There is hereby 
established in the Treasury of the United States, as an account for the 
Architect of the Capitol, the House Historic Buildings Revitalization 
Trust Fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Fund'').

    (b) Use of Amounts.--Amounts in the Fund shall be used by the 
Architect of the Capitol for the revitalization of the major historical 
buildings and assets of the House of Representatives which the Architect 
is responsible for maintaining and preserving, except that the Architect 
may not obligate any amounts in the Fund without the approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (c) Continuing Availability of Funds.--Any amounts transferred to 
and merged with, or otherwise deposited into, the Fund shall remain 
available until expended.
    (d) Permitting Transfers From Amounts Appropriated for House of 
Representatives.--Section 101 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b), as amended by section 103(a) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2009, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of 
Representatives under any heading other than the heading `Members' 
Representational Allowances' may be transferred to the Architect of the 
Capitol and merged with and made available under the heading `House 
Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund', subject to the approval 
of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section and the amendment made by this 
section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2010 and each succeeding 
fiscal year.


               support and maintenance during emergencies


    Sec. 1305.  <<NOTE: 2 USC 1827.>> (a) During an emergency involving 
the safety of human life or the protection of property, as determined or 
declared by the Capitol Police Board, the Architect of the Capitol--
            (1) may accept contributions of comfort and other incidental 
        items and services to support employees of the Office of the 
        Architect of the Capitol while such employees are on duty in 
        response to the emergency; and
            (2) may incur obligations and make expenditures out of 
        available appropriations for meals, refreshments, and other 
        support and maintenance for the Office of the Architect of the 
        Capitol if, in the judgment of the Architect, such obligations 
        and expenditures are necessary to respond to the emergency.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2010 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library;

[[Page 123 STAT. 2036]]

operation and maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the 
Library; activities under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 2009; 
preparation and distribution of catalog records and other publications 
of the Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and 
expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly 
chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by the Board, 
$446,151,000, of which not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from 
collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2010, and 
shall remain available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 
shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 2010 and shall 
remain available until expended for the development and maintenance of 
an international legal information database and activities related 
thereto: Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 
1902, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure 
in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $6,350,000: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $7,315,000 
shall remain available until expended for the digital collections and 
educational curricula program: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $750,000 shall be transferred to the Abraham 
Lincoln Bicentennial Commission for carrying out the purposes of Public 
Law 106-173, of which $10,000 may be used for official representation 
and reception expenses of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $250,000 shall 
be used to carry out activities under the Civil Rights History Project 
Act of <<NOTE: Nebraska. Historic preservation.>> 2009: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, $200,000 shall be used 
for the purpose of preserving, digitizing and making available 
historically and culturally significant materials related to the 
development of Nebraska and the American West, which amount shall be 
transferred to the Durham Museum in Omaha, Nebraska.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $55,476,000, of 
which not more than $28,751,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2010 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any funds 
derived from collections under such section, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $5,861,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2010 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 
803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title: Provided further, That the total 
amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $34,612,000: Provided further, That not more 
than $100,000 of

[[Page 123 STAT. 2037]]

the amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not more than $4,250 may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for activities of the International Copyright 
Institute and for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of 
title 17, United States Code, any amounts made available under this 
heading which are attributable to royalty fees and payments received by 
the Copyright Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of 
such title may be used for the costs incurred in the administration of 
the Copyright Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of 
salaries and benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under 
section 802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$112,490,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $70,182,000, of which 
$30,577,000 shall remain available 
until <<NOTE: Contracts. Newspapers.>> expended: Provided, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to contract to 
provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped residents at no 
cost to the individual.

                        Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1401. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2010, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $123,328,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2010, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``Library of Congress'', under the subheading

[[Page 123 STAT. 2038]]

``Salaries and Expenses'', to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK Program 
and the Federal Research Program established under section 103 of the 
Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (Public 
Law 106-481; 2 U.S.C. 182c): Provided, That the total amount of such 
transfers may not exceed $1,900,000: Provided further, That the 
appropriate revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any 
amounts transferred to it before the period of availability of the 
Library appropriation expires.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 1402. (a) In General.--Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 
2010 for the Library of Congress may be transferred during fiscal year 
2010 between any of the headings under the heading ``Library of 
Congress'' upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total amount of 
funds appropriated to the account under any heading under the heading 
``Library of Congress'' for fiscal year 2010 may be transferred from 
that account by all transfers made under subsection (a).

       classification of library of congress positions above gs-15

    Sec. 1403.  Section 5108 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) The Librarian of Congress may classify positions in the 
Library of Congress above GS-15 pursuant to standards established by the 
Office in subsection (a)(2).''.

   leave carryover for certain library of congress executive positions

    Sec. 1404.  Section 6304(f)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (G), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; or'' and
            (3) by adding after subparagraph (G) the following:
                    ``(H) a position in the Library of Congress the 
                compensation for which is set at a rate equal to the 
                annual rate of basic pay payable for positions at level 
                III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314.''.
            (4) <<NOTE: Applicability. 5 USC 6304 note.>> The amendments 
        made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to annual leave 
        accrued during pay periods beginning after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United

[[Page 123 STAT. 2039]]

States Code); printing and binding of Government publications authorized 
by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, 
and distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $93,768,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal <<NOTE: Time period.>> years: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the 2-year limitation under section 718 of title 44, 
United States Code, none of the funds appropriated or made available 
under this Act or any other Act for printing and binding and related 
services provided to Congress under chapter 7 of title 44, United States 
Code, may be expended to print a document, report, or publication after 
the 27-month period beginning on the date that such document, report, or 
publication is authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress 
reauthorizes such printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, 
United States Code: Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended 
balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office 
revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to 
the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $40,911,000: Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations are 
authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial sets and 
other related publications for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 to depository 
and other designated libraries: Provided further, That any unobligated 
or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes 
for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Printing 
Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, 
subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and Senate.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$12,782,000 for information technology development and facilities 
repair: Provided, That the Government Printing Office is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds 
available and in accordance with law, and to make such contracts and 
commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by 
section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as

[[Page 123 STAT. 2040]]

may be necessary in carrying out the programs and purposes set forth in 
the budget for the current fiscal year for the Government Printing 
Office revolving fund: Provided further, That not more than $7,500 may 
be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in connection 
with official representation and reception expenses: Provided further, 
That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of 
not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, That 
expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the advisory councils 
to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to carry out the 
provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall be available for temporary or intermittent services 
under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
such title: Provided further, That activities financed through the 
revolving fund may provide information in any format: Provided further, 
That the revolving fund and the funds provided under the headings 
``Office of Superintendent of Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' 
may not be used for contracted security services at GPO's passport 
facility in the District of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For <<NOTE: Regulations.>> necessary expenses of the Government 
Accountability Office, including not more than $12,500 to be expended on 
the certification of the Comptroller General of the United States in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses; 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily 
equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor 
vehicle; advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with 
section 3324 of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to 
those payable under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of 
living quarters in foreign countries, $556,849,000: Provided, That not 
more than $5,449,000 of payments received under section 782 of title 31, 
United States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal year 2010: 
Provided further, That not more than $2,350,000 of reimbursements 
received under section 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be 
available for use in fiscal year 2010: Provided further, That not more 
than $7,423,000 of reimbursements received under section 3521 of title 
31, United States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal year 2010: 
Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by the 
respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may 
be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs 
involved are initially financed.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2041]]

                        Administrative Provision

    repeal of certain audits, studies, and reviews of the government 
                          accountability office

    Sec. 1501. (a) Use of Funds in Projects Constructed Under Projected 
Cost.--Section 211 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3151) is amended by striking subsection (d).
    (b) Audits of Small Business Participation in Construction of the 
Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline.--Section 112 of the Alaska Natural Gas 
Pipeline Act (15 U.S.C. 720j) is amended by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Audits of Assistance Under Compacts of Free Association.--
Section 104(h) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 
(48 U.S.C. 1921c(h)) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
    (d) Semiannual Audits of Independent Counsel Expenditures.--The 
matter under the heading ``Salaries and Expenses, General Legal 
Activities'' under the heading ``Legal Activities'' under title II of 
the Department of Justice Appropriation Act of 1988, (28 U.S.C. 591 
note; Public Law 100-202; 101 Stat. 1329, 1329-9) is amended by striking 
``Provided further, That the Comptroller General shall perform 
semiannual financial reviews of expenditures from the Independent 
Counsel permanent indefinite appropriation, and report their findings to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate:''.
    (e) Reports on Ambulance Service Costs.--Section 414 of the Medicare 
Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Public 
Law 108-173) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395m note.>> (f); 
        and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (g) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395m 
        note, 1395x.>> as subsection (f).

                 OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$12,000,000.

                        Administrative Provision

                      open world leadership center

    Sec. 1601. (a) Board Membership.--Section 313(a)(2) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151(a)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``members'' and 
        inserting ``Members of the House of Representatives''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``members'' and 
        inserting ``Senators''.

    (b) Executive Director.--Section 313(d) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151(d)) is amended in the first 
sentence by striking ``The Board shall appoint'' and inserting ``On 
behalf of the Board, the Librarian of Congress shall appoint''.
    (c) Effective <<NOTE: 2 USC 1151 note.>> Date.--The amendments made 
by this subsection shall apply with respect to--

[[Page 123 STAT. 2042]]

            (1) appointments made on and after the date of enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) the remainder of the fiscal year in which enacted, and 
        each fiscal year thereafter.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 U.S.C. 
1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2010 unless expressly 
so provided in this Act.

                  rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 32 
et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation 
of any office or position appropriated for is different from that 
specifically established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the 
designation in this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: 
Provided, That the provisions in this Act for the various items of 
official expenses of Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and 
House of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the 
House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect 
thereto.

                           consulting services

    Sec. 204.  <<NOTE: Contracts.>> The expenditure of any appropriation 
under this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued under 
existing law.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2043]]

                         awards and settlements

    Sec. 205.  Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay awards and 
settlements as authorized under such subsection.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 206.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                          landscape maintenance

    Sec. 207.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped grassy 
areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW, on the northeast, Second Street, 
SW, on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of the I-395 
tunnel on the southeast.

                         limitation on transfers

    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                       guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 209. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of Congress 
and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.
    This division may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2010''.

       DIVISION B-- <<NOTE: Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2010.>> CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 2010

That the following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable

[[Page 123 STAT. 2044]]

corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the several 
departments, agencies, corporations, and other organizational units of 
Government for fiscal year 2010, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101.  Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2009 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this joint resolution, that were conducted in fiscal year 2009, 
and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were made 
available in the following appropriations Acts:
            (1) Chapter 2 of title IX of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252).
            (2) Section 155 of division A of the Consolidated Security, 
        Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 110-329), except that subsections (c), (d), and (e) 
        of such section shall not apply to funds made available under 
        this joint resolution.
            (3) Divisions C through E of the Consolidated Security, 
        Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 110-329).
            (4) Divisions A through I of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 
        2009 (Public Law 111-8), as amended by section 2 of Public Law 
        111-46.
            (5) Titles III and VI (under the heading ``Coast Guard'') of 
        the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32).

    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
fiscal year 2009 or prior years; (2) the increase in production rates 
above those sustained with fiscal year 2009 funds; or (3) the 
initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
operation, or organization (defined as any project, subproject, 
activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a 
program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 line item 
in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 line 
item that includes a program element and subprogram element within an 
appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2009.
    (b) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> No appropriation or funds made available or 
authority granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense 
shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance 
procurement funding for economic order quantity procurement unless 
specifically appropriated later.

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2009.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any project or activity during the period for which

[[Page 123 STAT. 2045]]

funds or authority for such project or activity are available under this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106.  <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> Unless otherwise provided for 
in this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations Act for 
fiscal year 2010, appropriations and funds made available and authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall be available until 
whichever of the following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of 
an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this joint 
resolution; (2) the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2010 without any provision for such project or 
activity; or (3) October 31, 2009.

    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive any 
other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that would otherwise 
have high initial rates of operation or complete distribution of 
appropriations at the beginning of fiscal year 2010 because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, such high initial rates of operation or complete distribution 
shall not be made, and no grants shall be awarded for such programs 
funded by this joint resolution that would impinge on final funding 
prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2009, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2009, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for 
mandatory payments due on or about the first day of any month that 
begins after October 2009 but not later than 30 days after the date 
specified in section 106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be 
available for such payments.

    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid furloughs 
within such department or agency, consistent with the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2009, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not be used until after the department 
or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer non-
personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public

[[Page 123 STAT. 2046]]

Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 
6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114.  Amounts made available by this joint resolution related 
to amounts provided in chapter 2 of title IX of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252), and titles III and VI of 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32), are 
designated as being for overseas deployments and other activities 
pursuant to sections 401(c)(4) and 423(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010, 
except that amounts so designated under this section shall not exceed 
$129,989,000,000.
    Sec. 115.  <<NOTE: Extension date. Applicability.>> The provisions 
of section 14103 of Public Law 111-32 shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution, and such 
provisions shall also apply to funds made available in this joint 
resolution.

    Sec. 116.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 9(f)(5) of the Richard 
B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(f)(5)) shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.

    Sec. 117.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 9(h) of the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3); 1758(h)(4)) shall 
continue in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution.

    Sec. 118.  The authority provided by section 18(h)(5) of the Richard 
B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(h)(5)) shall 
continue in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 119.  <<NOTE: Applicability. Extension date.>> Section 
21(g)(1)(A)(ii) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769b-1(g)(1)(A)(ii)) shall be applied by substituting ``October 
1, 2008, and October 1, 2009'' for ``October 1, 2008'' and shall 
continue in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution.

    Sec. 120.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 26(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769g(d)) shall continue in effect through the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Commerce--Bureau of the Census--Periodic Censuses and 
Programs'' at a rate for operations of $7,065,707,000.
    Sec. 122.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 8116 of division C of Public Law 110-329 and section 310 of 
title III of Public Law 111-32 shall continue in effect through the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 123.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2006 (Public Law 109-163), as amended by section 1214 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417), shall continue in effect through the earlier of the date 
of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010 or the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 124.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2004 (Public Law 108-136), as amended by section 1022 of the Duncan 
Hunter

[[Page 123 STAT. 2047]]

National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-
417), shall continue in effect through the earlier of the date of 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
or the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 125.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1998 (Public Law 105-85), as amended by section 1024 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417), shall continue in effect through the earlier of the date 
of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010 or the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 126.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend 
local funds for programs and activities under the heading ``District of 
Columbia Funds'' for such programs and activities under title IV of S. 
1432 (111th Congress), as reported by the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, at the rate set forth under ``District of Columbia Funds'' 
as included in the Second Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Request Act (D.C. Act 
18-188).
    Sec. 127.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 5739 of title 5, United States Code, shall continue in effect 
through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution, 
notwithstanding subsection (e) of such section 5739.

    Sec. 128.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 401(b) of the Illegal 
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 
1324a note) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``the 11-year period 
beginning on the first day the pilot program is in effect''.

    Sec. 129.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Sections 1309(a) and 1319 of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016a and 4026) shall 
each be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of 
this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.

    Sec. 130.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The requirement set forth in 
section 610(b) of the Department of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 (8 U.S.C. 1153 
note) shall continue through the date specified in section 106(3) of 
this joint resolution.

    Sec. 131.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 550(b) of Public Law 
109-295 shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution for ``three years after the date of 
enactment of this Act''.

    Sec. 132.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 203(m) of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5133(m)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.

    Sec. 133.  Subclauses (II) and (III) of section 101(a)(27)(C)(ii) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(C)(ii)) shall 
each be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of 
this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.
    Sec. 134.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 220(c) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Technical Corrections Act of 1994 (8 U.S.C. 
1182 note) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.

    Sec. 135.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 331 of the Department of 
the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 
106-291),

[[Page 123 STAT. 2048]]

as amended by section 336 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 
(Public Law 108-447), shall be applied by substituting the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 
2009''.

    Sec. 136.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 339(h) of the Department 
of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (as 
enacted into law by Public Law 106-113), as amended by section 335(6) of 
Public Law 108-108, shall be applied by substituting the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.

    Sec. 137.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 325 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public Law 108-108), as amended by section 426 
of division E of Public Law 111-8, shall continue to apply through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 138.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by the 
19th unnumbered paragraph under heading ``Administrative Provisions, 
Forest Service'' in title III of the Department of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006, Public Law 
109-54, shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 139.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, including section 703 of Public Law 109-415, the 
authorities provided in title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300ff et seq.) shall continue in effect as they were in effect 
during fiscal year 2009, and apply through the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 140.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the 
Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``the end of fiscal year 
2009''.

    Sec. 141.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Veterans Health Administration--Medical Services'', ``Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Facilities'' of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs at rates for operations not exceeding the lower of the amount in 
the President's fiscal year 2010 Budget Request (H. Doc. 111-3), the 
amount in H.R. 3082, as passed by the House of Representatives on July 
10, 2009, or the amount in S. 1407, as reported by the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate on July 7, 2009.
    Sec. 142.  <<NOTE: Iraq.>> Notwithstanding section 7042(b) of 
division H of Public Law 111-8, amounts provided by section 101 of this 
joint resolution for Iraq shall be obligated under the terms and 
conditions of section 1106(b) of Public Law 111-32.

    Sec. 143.  <<NOTE: Palestinian Authority.>> Notwithstanding section 
7040(f) of division H of Public Law 111-8, amounts provided by section 
101 of this joint resolution for the Palestinian Authority shall be 
obligated under the terms and conditions of section 1107 of Public Law 
111-32.

    Sec. 144.  <<NOTE: Iraq. Zimbabwe.>> Notwithstanding sections 
7042(a) and 7070(e) of division H of Public Law 111-8, amounts provided 
by section 101 of this joint resolution for assistance for Iraq and 
Zimbabwe shall be obligated under the terms and conditions of section 
1108 of Public Law 111-32.

    Sec. 145.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 1113 of Public Law 111-32 shall continue in effect through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2049]]

    Sec. 146.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 309(f) of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 
1994 (22 U.S.C. 6208(f)) shall remain in effect through the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 147.  <<NOTE: Extension date.>> The authority provided by 
section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 
(22 U.S.C. 6553) shall remain in effect through the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 148.  The authority provided by section 301(a)(3) of the 
Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 
4831 (a)(3)) shall remain in effect through the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 149.  <<NOTE: Housing. Contracts.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this joint resolution, other than section 106, the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall obligate funds provided 
by section 101 at a rate the Secretary determines is necessary to renew 
or amend, in a timely manner, all section 8 project-based, section 202, 
and section 811, rental assistance contracts. In renewing or amending 
such contracts, the Secretary may provide for payments to be made beyond 
the period covered by this joint resolution.

    Sec. 150.  Commitments to guarantee loans, as authorized by the 
National Housing Act and insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance 
Fund, shall not exceed a loan principal of $1,500,000,000 multiplied by 
the number of days covered by this joint resolution.
    Sec. 151.  Commitments to guarantee loans, as authorized by section 
306 of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed a loan principal of 
$2,500,000,000 multiplied by the number of days covered by this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 152.  <<NOTE: Mortgages.>> Notwithstanding the limitation in 
the first sentence of section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 
U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, 
through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution, 
insure, and enter into commitments to insure mortgages under section 255 
of such Act. During the period covered by this joint resolution, for new 
loans guaranteed pursuant to section 255 of the National Housing Act 
(12. U.S.C. 1715z-20), the Secretary shall adjust the factors used to 
calculate the principal limit (as such term is defined in HUD Handbook 
4235.1) that were assumed in the President's Budget Request for 2010 for 
such loans, as necessary to ensure that the program operates at a net 
zero subsidy rate.

    Sec. 153.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 24(o) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v(o)) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for the date specified in such section 24(o).

    Sec. 154.  Funds made available under section 101 for the National 
Transportation Safety Board shall include amounts necessary to make 
lease payments due in fiscal year 2010 only, on an obligation incurred 
in 2001 under a capital lease.
    Sec. 155. (a) <<NOTE: Applicability. Time period.>> Section 48103(6) 
of title 49, United States Code, shall be applied: (1) by substituting 
the amount specified in such section with an amount that equals 
$3,820,000,000 multiplied by the ratio of the number of days covered by 
this joint resolution to 365; and (2) by substituting the fiscal year 
specified in such section with the period beginning October 1, 2009, 
through the date specified in section 106(3) of <<NOTE: Expiration 
date.>> this joint resolution. This subsection shall be in effect 
through the earlier of the date of enactment

[[Page 123 STAT. 2050]]

of an Act amending section 48103 of title 49, United States Code, or the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 47104(c) of title 49, United 
States Code, shall be applied by substituting ``2010'' for ``2009''.

    (c) Nothing in this section shall affect the availability of any 
balances of contract authority provided under section 48103 of title 49, 
United States Code, for fiscal year 2009 and any prior fiscal year.
    Sec. 156. (a) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Sections 4081(d)(2)(B), 
4261(j)(1)(A)(ii), and 4271(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 shall each be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''.

    (b) Subsections (d)(1) and (e)(2) of section 9502 of such Code shall 
each be applied by substituting the date that is 1 day after the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``October 1, 
2009''.
    (c) Subparagraph (A) of section 9502(d)(1) of <<NOTE: 26 USC 
9502.>> such Code is amended by inserting ``or any joint resolution 
making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2010'' before the 
semicolon at the end.

    Sec. 157. (a) Extension of Surface Transportation Programs.--Except 
as otherwise provided in this section, requirements, authorities, 
conditions, eligibilities, limitations, and other provisions authorized 
under titles I through VI of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient 
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 1144), the 
SAFETEA-LU Technical Corrections Act of 2008 (122 Stat. 1572), titles I 
through VI of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991 (105 Stat. 1914), titles I through V of the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107), title 23, United States Code, 
and chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, which would otherwise 
expire on or cease to apply after September 30, 2009, are incorporated 
by reference and shall continue in effect through the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Except as otherwise expressly provided in this 
section, funds made available for obligation under this joint resolution 
and expended under the authority of this section shall be distributed, 
administered, limited, and made available for obligation in the same 
manner and at the same rate as funds authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2009 to carry out programs, projects, activities, 
eligibilities, and requirements under the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, 
Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 
1144), the SAFETEA-LU Technical Corrections Act of 2008 (122 Stat. 
1572), titles I through VI of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1914), titles I through V of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107), title 
23, United States Code, chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, 
including section 5338(f)(1) of title 49, United States Code, chapter 
303 of part A of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, and part B 
of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code.
    (c) Distribution of Funds Under Titles III and V of SAFETEA-LU.--
Funds made available for programs authorized under titles III and V of 
the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A 
Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 1544 and 1779) and continued under this 
joint resolution shall be distributed to major program areas under those 
programs in the same

[[Page 123 STAT. 2051]]

proportion as funds were allocated for those program areas for fiscal 
year 2009, except that any designations for specific activities in 
sections 3044 and 3046 under title III and in title V of such Act shall 
not be required to be continued for the duration of this joint 
resolution.
    (d) Extension and Flexibility for Certain Allocated Programs.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the portion of the share of 
funds of a State under subsection (b) determined by the amount that the 
State received for fiscal year 2009 to carry out sections 1301(m), 
1302(e), 1307, 1702, and 1934 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, 
Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 1202, 
1205, 1217, 1256, and 1485), and section 144(f)(1) of title 23, United 
States Code, shall be--
            (1) made available to the State for purposes described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code; and
            (2) administered in the same manner and with the same period 
        of availability as such funding is administered under section 
        133 of title 23, United States Code, except that subsections 
        (d)(2) and (d)(3) of such section shall not apply to amounts 
        administered pursuant to this section.

    Sec. 158. (a) Appropriation of Funding for Certain Highway Trust 
Fund Programs.--For <<NOTE: Time period.>> the period from October 1, 
2009, through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution, an amount shall be available from the Highway Trust Fund 
(including from the Mass Transit Account) to carry out each program, 
project, and activity continued under section 157 of this joint 
resolution that was funded from the Highway Trust Fund (including from 
the Mass Transit Account) during fiscal year 2009 in a sum equal to and 
from the same account as--
            (1) the total amount available for such program, project, 
        and activity for fiscal year 2009 under titles I through VI of 
        the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity 
        Act: A Legacy for Users (119 Stat. 1144) and the SAFETEA-LU 
        Technical Corrections Act of 2008 (122 Stat. 1572), divided by 
        365; and multiplied by
            (2) the number of days between September 30, 2009, and the 
        date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.

    (b) Contract Authority.--Funds made available under this joint 
resolution to be expended under the authority of section 157 of this 
joint resolution shall be available for obligation in the same manner as 
if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United 
States Code, or section 5338(f)(1) of title 49, United States Code, 
whichever appropriate.
    (c)  Calculation.--The amounts made available under this joint 
resolution to be expended under the authority of this section shall be 
calculated by taking into account any rescission or cancellation of 
funds or contract authority for fiscal year 2009 under the Safe, 
Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for 
Users or any other law.
    Sec. 159. (a) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Extension of Authority for 
Expenditures From Highway Trust Fund.--
            (1) Paragraph (1) of section 9503(c) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 shall be applied--
                    (A) by substituting the date specified in section 
                106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 30, 
                2009''; and

[[Page 123 STAT. 2052]]

                    (B) by substituting the date that is 1 day after the 
                date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
                resolution for ``October 1, 2009''.
            (2) Paragraph (1) of section 9503(c) of such <<NOTE: 26 USC 
        9503.>> Code is amended by striking ``under'' and all that 
        follows and inserting ``under the first Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2010 enacted into law 
        or any other provision of law which was referred to in this 
        paragraph before the date of the enactment of such Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution (as such Resolution and provisions of 
        law are in effect on the date of the enactment of such 
        Resolution).''.

    (b) Mass Transit Account.--
            (1) Paragraph (3) of section 9503(e) of such Code shall be 
        applied by substituting the date that is 1 day after the date 
        specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for 
        ``October 1, 2009''.
            (2) Paragraph (3) of section 9503(e) of such Code is amended 
        by striking ``in accordance with'' and all that follows and 
        inserting ``in accordance with the first Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2010 enacted into law 
        or any other provision of law which was referred to in this 
        paragraph before the date of the enactment of such Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution (as such Resolution and provisions of 
        law are in effect on the date of the enactment of such 
        Resolution).''.

    (c) Exception to Limitations on Transfers.--Subparagraph (B) of 
section 9503(b)(6) of such Code shall be applied--
            (1) by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of 
        this joint resolution for ``September 30, 2009''; and
            (2) by substituting the date that is 1 day after the date 
        specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for 
        ``October 1, 2009''.

    Sec. 160.  Section 4 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration 
Act (16 U.S.C. 777c) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: Time period.>> in subsection (a), by inserting 
        ``and the period from October 1, 2009, through the date 
        specified in section 106(3) of the first Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2010 enacted into 
        law,'' after ``2009,''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by inserting ``and the period 
        from October 1, 2009, through the date specified in section 
        106(3) of the first Continuing Appropriations Resolution for 
        Fiscal Year 2010 enacted into law,'' after ``2009''.

    Sec. 161. (a) Paragraph (2) of section 9504(b) of the Internal 
Revenue <<NOTE: 26 USC 9504.>> Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(as in effect'' in subparagraph (A) and 
        all that follows in such subparagraph and inserting ``(as in 
        effect on the date of the enactment of the first Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2010),'';
            (2) by striking ``(as in effect'' in subparagraph (B) and 
        all that follows in such subparagraph and inserting ``(as in 
        effect on the date of the enactment of the first Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2010), and''; and
            (3) by striking ``(as in effect'' in subparagraph (C) and 
        all that follows in such subparagraph and inserting ``(as in 
        effect on the date of the enactment of the first Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2010).''.

[[Page 123 STAT. 2053]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Paragraph (2) of section 9504(d) of 
such Code shall be applied by substituting the date that is one day 
after the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for 
``October 1, 2009''.

    Sec. 162.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or 
in the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made 
available and authority granted pursuant to sections 157 through 161 of 
this joint resolution shall be available until (1) enactment into law of 
an Act to extend or reauthorize surface transportation programs, or (2) 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution, whichever 
first occurs, and shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable 
appropriation, fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 163.  <<NOTE: ACORN.>> None of the funds made available by this 
joint resolution or any prior Act may be provided to the Association of 
Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN), or any of its 
affiliates, subsidiaries, or allied organizations.

    Sec. 164. (a) Clause (iii) of section 8909a(d)(3)(A) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(iii) $1,400,000,000, not later than September 30, 
        2009;''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 5 USC 8909a note.>> The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of 
section 803(a)(1)(B) of the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act 
(Public Law 109-435; 120 Stat. 3251).

    This division may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2010''.

    Approved October 1, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2918:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 111-160 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 111-265        
`(Comm. of Conference).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            June 19, considered and passed House.
            June 25, July 6, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 25, House agreed to conference report.
            Sept. 30, Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>