[111th Congress Public Law 230]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 2485]]

Public Law 111-230
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations for border security for the 
          fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 13, 2010 -  [H.R. 6080]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,  That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$253,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, of which 
$39,000,000 shall be for costs to maintain U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection Officer staffing on the Southwest Border of the United 
States, $29,000,000 shall be for hiring additional U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection Officers for deployment at ports of entry on the 
Southwest Border of the United States, $175,900,000 shall be for hiring 
additional Border Patrol agents for deployment to the Southwest Border 
of the United States, and $10,000,000 shall be to support integrity and 
background investigation programs.

         border security fencing, infrastructure, and technology

    For an additional amount for ``Border Security Fencing, 
Infrastructure, and Technology'', $14,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011, for costs of designing, building, and deploying 
tactical communications for support of enforcement activities on the 
Southwest Border of the United States.

  air and marine interdiction, operations, maintenance, and procurement

    For an additional amount for ``Air and Marine Interdiction, 
Operations, Maintenance, and Procurement'', $32,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2012, for costs of acquisition and 
deployment of unmanned aircraft systems.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2486]]

                 construction and facilities management

    For an additional amount for ``Construction and Facilities 
Management'', $6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011, 
for costs to construct up to 2 forward operating bases for use by the 
Border Patrol to carry out enforcement activities on the Southwest 
Border of the United States.

                U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $80,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011, of which $30,000,000 shall 
be for law enforcement activities targeted at reducing the threat of 
violence along the Southwest Border of the United States, and 
$50,000,000 shall be for hiring of additional agents, investigators, 
intelligence analysts, and support personnel.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $8,100,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011, for costs to provide basic 
training for new U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officers, Border 
Patrol agents, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 101.  From unobligated balances made available to U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection ``Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and 
Technology'', $100,000,000 are rescinded: Provided, That section 401 
shall not apply to the amount in this section.

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

    Sec. 201.  For an additional amount for the Department of Justice 
for necessary expenses for increased law enforcement activities related 
to Southwest border enforcement, $196,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011: Provided, That funds shall be distributed to the 
following accounts and in the following specified amounts:
            (1) ``Administrative Review and Appeals'', $2,118,000.
            (2) ``Detention Trustee'', $7,000,000.
            (3) ``Legal Activities, Salaries and Expenses, General Legal 
        Activities'', $3,862,000.
            (4) ``Legal Activities, Salaries and Expenses, United States 
        Attorneys'', $9,198,000.
            (5) ``United States Marshals Service, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $29,651,000.
            (6) ``United States Marshals Service, Construction'', 
        $8,000,000.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2487]]

            (7) ``Interagency Law Enforcement, Interagency Crime and 
        Drug Enforcement'', $21,000,000.
            (8) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $24,000,000.
            (9) ``Drug Enforcement Administration, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $33,671,000.
            (10) ``Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, 
        Salaries and Expenses'', $37,500,000.
            (11) ``Federal Prison System, Salaries and Expenses'', 
        $20,000,000.

                                TITLE III

                              THE JUDICIARY

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $10,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 302 of division C of Public Law 111-117, funding 
shall be available for transfer between Judiciary accounts to meet 
increased workload requirements resulting from immigration and other law 
enforcement initiatives.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401.  Each amount appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act is designated as an emergency requirement and necessary 
to meet emergency needs pursuant to sections 403(a) and 423(b) of S. 
Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 402. (a) <<NOTE: Time period. Fee increases. 8 USC 1101 
note.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or any other 
provision of law, during the period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 2014, the filing fee 
and fraud prevention and detection fee required to be submitted with an 
application for admission as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(L) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(L)) shall 
be increased by 2,250 for applicants that employ 50 or more employees in 
the United States if more than 50 percent of the applicant's employees 
are nonimmigrants admitted pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of 
such Act or section 101(a)(15)(L) of such Act.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or any other 
provision of law, during the period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 2014, the filing fee 
and fraud prevention and detection fee required to be submitted with an 
application for admission as a nonimmigrant under section 
101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b)) shall be increased by $2,000 for applicants that 
employ 50 or more employees in the United States if more than 50 percent 
of the applicant's employees are such nonimmigrants or nonimmigrants 
described in section 101(a)(15)(L) of such Act.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2488]]

    (c) During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act and ending on September 30, 2014, all amounts collected pursuant to 
the fee increases authorized under this section shall be deposited in 
the General Fund of the Treasury.

    Approved August 13, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 6080:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Aug. 10, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 12, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>