[111th Congress Public Law 96]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 3005]]

Public Law 111-96
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To allow the funding for the interoperable emergency communications 
 grant program established under the Digital Television Transition and 
  Public Safety Act of 2005 to remain available until expended through 
 fiscal year 2012, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 2009 -  [S. 
                                1694]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PUBLIC SAFETY INTEROPERABLE COMMUNICATIONS GRANTS.

    (a) Notwithstanding section 3006(a)(2) of the Digital Television 
Transition and Public Safety Act of 2005 (47 U.S.C. 309 note), sums made 
available to administer the Public Safety Interoperable Communications 
Grant Program under section 309(j)(8)(E) of the Communications Act of 
1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(E)) shall remain available until expended, but 
not beyond September 30, 2012.
    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  The period for performance of any 
investment approved under the Program as of the date of enactment of 
this Act shall be extended by one year, but not later than September 30, 
2011, except that the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications 
and Information may extend, on a case-by-case basis, the period of 
performance for any investment approved under the Program as of that 
date for a period of not more than 2 years, but not later than September 
30, 2012. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  In making a determination as to 
whether an extension beyond September 30, 2011, is warranted, the 
Assistant Secretary should consider the circumstances that gave rise to 
the need for the extension, the likelihood of completion of performance 
within the deadline for completion, and

[[Page 123 STAT. 3006]]

such other factors as the Assistant Secretary deems necessary to make 
the determination.

    Approved November 6, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1694:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 28, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>