[111th Congress Public Law 200]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 1367]]

         CONGRESSIONAL AWARD PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2009

[[Page 124 STAT. 1368]]

Public Law 111-200
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), and 
        for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 7, 2010 -  [S. 2865]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Congressional Award Program 
Reauthorization Act of 2009. 2 USC 801 note.>> assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Congressional Award Program 
Reauthorization Act of 2009''.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL AWARD PROGRAM.

    (a) Implementation and Presentation.--Section 102 of the 
Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 802) is amended--
            (1) in the matter following subsection (b)(5), by striking 
        ``under paragraph (3)''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), in the second sentence, by striking 
        ``during'' and inserting ``in connection with''.

    (b) Terms of Appointment and Reappointments.--Section 103 of the 
Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 803) is amended by striking subsection 
(b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Terms of Appointed Members; Reappointment.--
            ``(1) Appointed members of the Board shall continue to serve 
        at the pleasure of the officer by whom they are appointed, and 
        (unless reappointed under paragraph (2)) shall serve for a term 
        of 4 years.
            ``(2)(A) Subject to the limitations in subparagraph (B), 
        members of the Board may be reappointed, except that no member 
        may serve more than 2 full consecutive terms. Members may be 
        reappointed to 2 full consecutive terms after being appointed to 
        fill a vacancy on the Board.
            ``(B) Members of the Board shall not be subject to the 
        limitation on reappointment in subparagraph (A) during their 
        period of service as Chairman of the Board and may be 
        reappointed to an additional full term after termination of such 
        Chairmanship.
            ``(3)(A) Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  
        paragraph (1) or (2), the term of each member of the Board shall 
        begin on October 1 of the even numbered year which would 
        otherwise apply with one-half of the Board positions having 
        terms which begin in each even numbered year.
            ``(B) Subparagraph <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  (A) shall apply 
        to appointments made to the Board on or after the date of 
        enactment of the Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act 
        of 2009.''.

[[Page 124 STAT. 1369]]

    (c) Requirements Regarding Financial Operations.--Section 104(c) of 
the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 804(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the third sentence, by striking ``, 
        in any calendar year,'' and inserting ``in any fiscal year''; 
        and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2)(A) The <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Comptroller General 
        of the United States shall determine for each fiscal year 
        whether the Director has substantially complied with paragraph 
        (1). The findings made by the Comptroller General under the 
        preceding sentence shall be included in the reports submitted 
        under section 107(b).
            ``(B) If the Director fails to substantially comply with 
        paragraph (1), the Board shall instruct the Director to take 
        such actions as may be necessary to correct such deficiencies, 
        and shall remove and replace the Director if such deficiencies 
        are not promptly corrected.''.

    (d) Funding and Expenditures.--Section 106(a) of the Congressional 
Award Act (2 U.S.C. 806(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (1) and 
inserting the following:
            ``(1) the Board shall carry out its functions and make 
        expenditures with--
                    ``(A) such resources as are available to the Board 
                from sources other than the Federal Government; and
                    ``(B) funds awarded in any grant program 
                administered by a Federal agency in accordance with the 
                law establishing that grant program.''.

    (e) Statewide Congressional Award Councils.--Section 106(c) of the 
Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 806(c)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Each Statewide Council established under this section 
        may receive contributions, and use such contributions for the 
        purposes of the Program. The Board shall adopt appropriate 
        financial management methods in order to ensure the proper 
        accounting of these funds. Each Statewide Council shall comply 
        with subsections (a), (d), (e), and (h) governing the Board.''.

    (f) Contracting and Use of Funds for Scholarships.--Section 106 of 
the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 806) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by inserting ``to be'' after 
        ``expenditure is''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(1)(A), by inserting ``or for 
        scholarships'' after ``local program''.

    (g) Nonprofit Corporation.--Section 106 of the Congressional Award 
Act (2 U.S.C. 806) is amended by striking subsection (i) and inserting 
the following:
    ``(i)(1) The Board shall provide for the incorporation of a 
nonprofit corporation to be known as the Congressional Award Foundation 
(together with any subsidiary nonprofit corporations determined 
desirable by the Board, collectively referred to in this title as the 
`Corporation') for the sole purpose of assisting the Board to carry out 
the Congressional Award Program, and shall delegate to the Corporation 
such duties as it considers appropriate, including the employment of 
personnel, expenditure of funds, and the incurrence of financial or 
other contractual obligations.
    ``(2) The articles of incorporation of the Congressional Award 
Foundation shall provide that--

[[Page 124 STAT. 1370]]

            ``(A) the members of the Board of Directors of the 
        Foundation shall be the members of the Board, with up to 24 
        additional voting members appointed by the Board, and the 
        Director who shall serve as a nonvoting member; and
            ``(B) the extent of the authority of the Foundation shall be 
        the same as that of the Board.

    ``(3) No director, officer, or employee of any corporation 
established under this subsection may receive compensation, travel 
expenses, or benefits from both the Corporation and the Board.''.
    (h) Termination.--
            (1) In general.--Section 108 of the Congressional Award Act 
        (2 U.S.C. 808) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2009'' and 
        inserting ``October 1, 2013''.
            (2) Effective date.--This subsection <<NOTE: 2 USC 808 
        note.>>  shall take effect as of October 1, 2009.

    Approved July 7, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2865:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-163 (Comm. on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Mar. 17, considered and passed Senate.
            June 23, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>