[111th Congress Public Law 160]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 1124]]

Public Law 111-160
111th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
Granting the consent and approval of Congress to amendments made by the 
  State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the District of 
    Columbia to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Regulation 
           Compact. <<NOTE: Apr. 26, 2010 -  [S.J. Res. 25]>> 

Whereas the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the 
    District of Columbia entered into the Washington Metropolitan Area 
    Transit Regulation Compact in 1960 with the consent of Congress in 
    Public Law No. 86-794, 74 Stat. 1031;

Whereas the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the 
    District of Columbia amended titles I and II of the Compact in 1962 
    and 1990 with the consent of Congress in Public Law No. 87-767, 76 
    Stat. 764, and Public Law No. 101-505, 104 Stat. 1300, respectively;

Whereas legislation enacted by the State of Maryland (2008 Md. Laws c. 
    32 and 2009 Md. Laws c. 76) the Commonwealth of Virginia (2007 Va. 
    Acts c. 378 and 2009 Va. Acts c. 540) and the District of Columbia 
    (D.C. Act 17-622) contain amendments to article III of title I of 
    the Compact regarding appointment of members to the Washington 
    Metropolitan Area Transit Commission; and

Whereas the consent of Congress is required in order to implement such 
    amendments: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONSENT OF CONGRESS TO COMPACT AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Consent.--Consent of Congress is given to the amendments of the 
State of Maryland, the amendments of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and 
the amendments of the District of Columbia to article III of title I of 
the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Regulation Compact.
    (b) Amendments.--The amendments referred to in subsection (a) are 
substantially as follows:
            (1) Section 1(a) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(a) The Commission shall be composed of 3 members, 1 member 
appointed by the Governor of Virginia from the Department of Motor 
Vehicles of the Commonwealth of Virginia, 1 member appointed by the 
Governor of Maryland from the Maryland Public Service Commission, and 1 
member appointed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia from a 
District of Columbia agency with oversight of matters relating to the 
Commission.''.
            (2) Section 1 is amended by inserting at the end the 
        following:

[[Page 124 STAT. 1125]]

    ``(d) An amendment to section 1(a) of this article shall not affect 
any member in office on the amendment's effective date.''.

SEC. 2. RIGHT TO ALTER, AMEND, OR REPEAL.

    The right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is expressly reserved.

SEC. 3. CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY.

    It is intended that the provisions of this compact shall be 
reasonably and liberally construed to effectuate the purposes thereof. 
If any part or application of this compact, or legislation enabling the 
compact, is held invalid, the remainder of the compact or its 
application to other situations or persons shall not be affected.

SEC. 4. INCONSISTENCY OF LANGUAGE.

    The validity of these amendments to the compact shall not be 
affected by any insubstantial differences in its form or language as 
adopted by the State of Maryland, Commonwealth of Virginia and District 
of Columbia.

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

    Approved April 26, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 25:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Jan. 21, considered and passed Senate.
            Apr. 14, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>